THAT'S
OK.
ALL RIGHT, WELL WELCOME TO THE
WEDNESDAY APRIL NINETEEN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE ELECTRONIC MEETING
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
ELECTRONICALLY BUT WE INTEND TO
CONDUCT THIS MEETING SIMILARLY
TO AN IN-PERSON PUBLIC COMMENT
WILL BE VIA TELEPHONE OR ZOOME
ONLY TO SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES TO
ZERO SIX THREE THREE SEVEN NINE
SEVEN TWO THREE AND ENTER
MEETING ID NUMBER NINE THREE
FOUR SIX THREE EIGHT FIVE TWO
NINE ZERO SEVEN OR JOIN.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CHANNEL 19 ALL
RIGHT.
SO CHRIS, IF YOU COULD NOW CALL
ROLL PLEASE.
NOT A PROBLEM OUT NOW CURRENT
RECEIVE REGRET'S FROM
COMMISSIONER MARGOLESE AND
COMMISSIONER LEE WHO WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO ATTEND SIT HERE AND
FROM WHERE YOU ARE DIALING WHEN
YOUR NAME IS COMMISSIONER
BOLLON HERE ANN ARBOR
COMMISSIONER ACKMANN, YOU'RE
ANN ARBOR COMMISSIONER BROGAN,
YOU'RE FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
OUT TO MIKEY.
YOU'RE FROM ANN ARBOR.
COMMISSIONER HOOK HERE FROM ANN
ARBOR.
>> COMMISSIONER KILA IS A MAN
OF WORK.
COMMISSIONER CLAMAN HERE FROM
ANN ARBOR.
COMMISSIONER LEIGH IS ABSENT
COMMISSIONER ANDERSON HERE FROM
ANN ARBOR.
COMMISSIONER WEINKAUF
COMMISSIONER HAS HERE FROM ANN
ARBOR, COMMISSIONER HUTCHINSON
HERE FROM ANN ARBOR.
COMMISSIONER MARGOLIS IS ABSENT
TODAY.
LIEUTENANT MIKE SCHERBA
OK AND
COMMISSIONER STUKA IS ALSO
ABSENT.
OK, WE ARE FOR IT.
WE HAVE COME ALSO THERE ARE TWO
ITEMS ON THE CONSENT AGENDA
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA AND
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES.
ARE THERE ANY MODIFICATIONS THE
CONSENT AGENDA?
ALL RIGHT.
SEE NONE IS OUR MOTION TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA AS
PRESENTED DULY AND SECONDED BY
DARMA.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES OR RAISE YOUR HAND.
>> YES, RIGHT.
AND THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
REASON.
OK, CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED
.
ALL RIGHT.
NOW WE GO TO THE PUBLIC COMMENT
SECTION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES AGAIN PLEASE CALL
TO ZERO SIX THREE THREE SEVEN
NINE SEVEN TWO THREE FOUR A.M.
MEETING I'D NUMBER NINE THREE
FOUR SIX THREE EIGHT FIVE TWO
NINE ZERO SEVEN OR COLLECTIVISM
AS DESCRIBED ON THE AGENDA,
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND ONE
BY ONE USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
THE PERSON'S NAME I.D. IN ORDER
TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR
HAND TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE OR SELECT THE RAISED
HAND BUTTON AND ZOOM.
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUND SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS JUST JUST YOUR NAME AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE CONFERENCE
.
SO LET'S SEE RAYMOND.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE THAT'S
RAISING THEIR HAND?
>> I DON'T SEE ANY AT THE
MOMENT.
I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
COMMISSIONER LEE HAS JOINED US
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT'S ALL.
OH I SEE THAT.
YEAH.
OK, I SEE THE ATTENDEES KNOW
RAISE YOUR HANDS.
OK ALL RIGHT
OK.
ALL RIGHT SO I GUESS THAT
CLOSES PUBLIC COMMENT AS ALWAYS
I THINK REMEMBER IF SOMEONE
RAISES THEIR HAND OR ENTERS
LATER IN THE MEETING WE CAN
CONSIDER TO GIVE THEM AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK THEN WE
KIND DONE THAT IN THE PAST OR
NOT REALLY.
>> YEAH.
IT'S AT YOUR DISCRETION.
I THINK IT IS ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE SHOULD TRY TO PROBABLY
BE IS CONSISTENT AS POSSIBLE
JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT WE STICK
TO THE CADENCE OF THE MEETING.
BUT SOMETIMES THERE ARE
EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES,
ESPECIALLY PART TIME CONNECTING
.
>> SO SURE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO BUSINESS SECTION OF THE
MEETING THERE ARE NO ACTUAL
ITEMS ON THIS MONTH'S AGENDA
BUT IN INFORMATION AND
DISCUSSION FIRST UP WE HAVE THE
BUDGET PRESENTATION FROM MARTY
PACHON.
THE CITY IS IN THE MIDST
OF DEVELOPING ITS BUDGET FOR
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY FOUR WHICH
BEGINS JULY 1ST.
MARTY PACHON IS WITH US THIS
EVENING TO GIVE A BRIEF
OVERVIEW OF THE DRAFT BUDGET
AND ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS WE
HAVE.
SO MARTY, I SEE THAT YOUR
CO-HOST I BELIEVE THAT EVENING
MY ATTEMPT TO SHARE MY SCREEN
HERE SO JUST LET ME KNOW IF YOU
ARE ABLE TO SEE THAT COMING
THROUGH ALREADY WE GET TO GO.
YES, INDEED.
ALL RIGHTY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO HAVE NOT MET, I AM
ALREADY PACHON CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER FOR THE CITY OF ANN.
AND TONIGHT I WILL BE GIVING
YOU AN OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OF THE
FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY
FOUR RECOMMENDED BUDGET
AND I'M ATTEMPTING TO HIGHLIGHT
ITEMS THAT THE COMMISSION MAY
HAVE PARTICULAR INTEREST IN
REAL QUICK IF PEOPLE HAVE
QUESTIONS MAYBE AT THE END
OF EACH SLIDE IF YOU WANT TO
RAISE YOUR HAND ON THAT WAY I
CAN SEE IF PEOPLE HAVE
QUESTIONS UNLESS YOU'D RATHER
PEOPLE WAIT TILL THE VERY END.
>> BUT NO, I DON'T HAVE A
PREFERENCE ACTUALLY THAT WAS
WHAT I WAS GOING TO SAY NEXT.
I HAVE A RATHER QUICK
PRESENTATION BECAUSE I KNOW YOU
HAVE A FEW THIS EVENING.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
EITHER AT THE END OR AFTER EACH
SLIDE WHICHEVER YOU PREFER.
I'LL KEEP MOVING UNLESS YOU IF
YOU UNTIL YOU STOP ME AND IF
THERE'S ANY FURTHER DETAILS
THAT I MIGHT PROVIDE DURING OR
AFTER I'M HAPPY TO DO SO JUST
JUST LET ME KNOW SOUNDS GOOD.
THANKS.
YOU BET.
HEY, A QUICK OVERVIEW OF THE
ENTIRE BUDGET WHICH CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO DELIVERED TO
FULL COUNCIL MONDAY EVENING HAS
A TOTAL BUDGET OF FIVE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY THREE POINT SEVEN
DOLLARS MILLION IN GENERAL THAT
AMOUNT IS IN LINE WITH PREVIOUS
YEARS THAT IS IT'S A TYPICAL
AMOUNT.
IT'S NOT OUT OF THE ORDINARY.
>> THE BUDGET IS COMPRISED
OF SEVERAL DIFFERENT FUND
TYPES, THE MAJOR CATEGORIES AND
WHERE YOU SEE THE MOST DOLLARS
OBVIOUSLY IS IN THE GENERAL
FUND WITH ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY NINE POINT TWO MILLION
ENTERPRISE FUNDS ACCOUNT FOR
ONE HUNDRED FORTY NINE MILLION
SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS AT ONE
AND ONE POINT ONE MILLION
DOLLARS AND THAT IS TYPICALLY
THE CATEGORY IN WHICH YOU'LL
SEE MOST OF THE TRANSPORTATION
ACTIVITIES ARE FUNDED.
YOU'LL SEE FUNDS LIKE MILLAGE
FUNDS, STREET BRIDGE, SIDEWALK
MILEAGES, ACTIVITY ONE OR WHEN
GAS TAX IN THOSE CATEGORIES WE
HAVE FIFTY POINT EIGHT IN TRUST
FUNDS AND TRUST FUNDS ARE
THINGS LIKE OUR PENSION FUNDS,
OUR RETIREMENT HEALTH CARE
FUNDS AND FINALLY ONE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY THREE POINT SIX IN
WHAT WE REFER TO IS THE OTHER
CATEGORY WHICH WOULD ENCOMPASS
THINGS LIKE OUR INTERNAL
SERVICE FUNDS, INTERNAL SERVICE
FUNDS, OUR SERVICE AREAS OR
UNITS THAT PROVIDE INTERNAL
SUPPORT TO ACTIVITIES AND A
USER BASIS.
SO SOME EXAMPLES OF THOSE TYPES
OF FUNDS WOULD BE OUR FLEET IN
FACILITIES FUND AND ALSO OUR
I.T. OR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
FUNDS.
THE SUBMITTED GENERAL FUND
MAINTAINS A FUND BALANCE THAT
IS WITHIN THE POLICY GUIDELINES
OF MAINTAINING 50 TO 20 PERCENT
.
EACH OF THESE FUND TYPES WILL
PER POLICY HAVE DIFFERENT
THRESHOLDS FOR FUND BALANCE
REQUIREMENTS.
BUT IN GENERAL ALL FUNDS THAT
WE ARE PROPOSING IS AS PART
OF THIS PROJECT ARE WITHIN
POLICY GUIDELINES FOR MINIMUM
FUND BALANCE REQUIREMENTS.
ANOTHER POSITIVE THING FOR THE
CITY IS OUR GENERAL OBLIGATION
BOND RATING REMAINS AT A DOUBLE
AA PLUS WHICH IS EXCELLENT.
IT PUTS US IN GOOD POSITION TO
LEVERAGE DOLLARS FOR BONDING
SHOULD A NEED ARISE.
I SHOULD ALSO MENTION THAT OUR
WATER AND SEWER FUNDS ALSO HAVE
EXCELLENT BOND RATINGS AND
DOUBLE AAA AND AA PLUS
RESPECTIVELY
.
GO INTO A LITTLE MORE DETAIL
ABOUT SOME OF THESE FUNDS THAT
YOU WOULD TYPICALLY SEE FUNDING
OUR TRANSPORTATION ACTIVITIES
IS THE FIRST FUND THAT WE'LL
TALK ABOUT IS THE MAJOR AND
LOCAL STREET FUNDS YOU MIGHT
HEAR THIS REFERRED TO AS WEIGHT
AND GASOLINE TAX FUNDS OR
MICHIGAN TRANSPORTATION FUNDS
OR EVEN PUBLIC PUBLIC ACTIVITY
ONE WHICH IS THE ACT THAT
ESTABLISHES THE GASOLINE TAX
THIS FUND IS FORECASTED TO
GENERATE ABOUT FIFTEEN POINT
EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS IN
REVENUE FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
FOUR.
>> THE REVENUE IS COLLECTED BY
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN AND IS
DISPERSED TO LOCAL UNITS BASED
ON A FORMULA WHICH CONSIDERS
BOTH THE POPULATION OF MILES A
ROADWAY WITHIN THE CITY.
YOU'LL NOTICE AS REPRESENTED ON
A BAR CHART THE TRAJECTORY FOR
THE FOR THE REVENUE IS UPWARD
BACK IN TWENTY FIFTEEN THE
STATE LEGISLATURE PASSED
LEGISLATION WHICH INCREASED THE
REVENUE STREAM OVER A PERIOD
OF FIVE YEARS WHICH ACCOUNTS
FOR THIS STEADY RISE HERE
THROUGH FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWO
.
THAT LEGISLATION IS NOW FULLY
IMPLEMENTED.
>> YOU'LL SEE HERE IN FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY THREE WE STILL SHOW
SOME GROWTH BUT AS WE MOVE ON
TO TWENTY FOUR POINT TWENTY
FIVE WE'RE A LITTLE MORE
CONSERVATIVE IN THOSE
PROJECTIONS BECAUSE THIS
REVENUE STREAM OBVIOUSLY IS
DIRECTLY IMPACTED BY SALES.
GASOLINE SALES OF GASOLINE ARE
IMPACTED BY SUCH THING AS
INFLATION VERSUS IN
RECESSIONARY CONDITIONS OR THE
OPPOSITE OF THAT LOWER PRICE
ENVIRONMENTS AT THIS POINT
WE'RE KIND OF AT AN INTERESTING
POINT ECONOMICALLY WHERE THERE
ARE STILL INDICATORS THAT EXIST
THAT POINT TOWARDS RECESSION.
>> HOWEVER, THERE ARE SOME
POSITIVE SIGNS POINT THAT POINT
TOWARD DECREASING INFLATION AND
STRONG ECONOMICS.
>> WE TYPICALLY SEE FIFTY ONE
REVENUE LAGGING BEHIND DUE TO
IMPACTS.
IT TAKES A WHILE FOR FOLKS TO
BE IMPACTED NOT FILL THEIR GAS
TANKS.
SO WE USUALLY SEE A LAGGING
IMPACT FROM THOSE CHANGES.
FOR THIS REASON WE DECIDED TO
BE CONSERVATIVE IN WHAT WE'RE
PROJECTING ALONG WITH THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
SO YOU'LL SEE THAT WE'RE KIND
OF JUST BEING A LITTLE BIT FLAT
ONE TO THREE PERCENT TWENTY
FOUR AND TWENTY FIVE.
>> THE GOOD THING ABOUT THIS IS
IF WE SEE THE ECONOMIC TREND
CHANGING OR THE REVENUE STREAM
CHANGING OR WE'RE REALIZING
MORE REVENUE, WE HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY NEXT CYCLE TO MAKE
THAT CORRECTION ON THE EXPENSE
SIDE YOU CAN SEE THE PROPOSED
BUDGET OF TWENTY ONE MILLION
DOLLARS AND THAT'S BOTH MAJOR
AND LOCAL STREET FUND AND THE
EXPENDITURES ARE BROKEN DOWN
INTO THE MAJOR CATEGORIES THAT
ARE REPRESENTED HERE IN THE PIE
CHART.
THE LARGEST CATEGORY OBVIOUSLY
IS THE RIGHT OF WAY MAINTENANCE
AT TWELVE POINT SIX MILLION
DOLLARS FOLLOWED BY TRAFFIC
CONTROL WHICH IS AT FOUR POINT
THREE THE RIGHT AWAY
MAINTENANCE CATEGORY INCLUDES
SUCH ACTIVITIES AS SNOW
REMOVAL, SWEEPING POTHOLE
FILLING AND ROAD CAPITAL
MAINTENANCE.
THE TRAFFIC CONTROL SECTION
INCLUDES ACTIVITIES SUCH AS
TRAFFIC SIGNAL MAINTENANCE,
TRAFFIC ENGINEERING, PEDESTRIAN
SIGNAL MAINTENANCE AND PAVEMENT
MARKINGS.
I BELIEVE LAST YEAR I
COVERED THIS WITH THIS GROUP
BUT I THINK YOU HAVE SOME NEW
MEMBERS AS I EXPLAINED THE
CATEGORIES LAST YEAR I WILL
TELL YOU THAT WE DO NOT
DIFFERENTIATE THE MOTORIZED
VERSUS NON MOTORIZED
EXPENDITURES HERE IF WE'RE
SWEEPING THE ROAD OR PLOWING
THE ROAD, THE NON MOTORIZED
INFRASTRUCTURE IS MAINTAINED
ALONG WITH THE ROAD THE SAME IS
TRUE FOR THE TRAFFIC CONTROL
SECTION.
WE TREAT PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS THE
SAME AS WE DO A MOTORIZED
SIGNAL AND ALONG WITH OUR RFP.
SO ALL OF THOSE EXPENSES TO
MAINTAIN THAT RIGHT OF WAY IS
EXPENSED IN THESE CATEGORIES IN
THE MAJOR AND LOCAL STREET
FUNDS FOR A COUPLE OF HANDS
RAISED BUT ON RICHARD OK, I'M
SO SORRY.
DO YOU HAVE ANY MORE YOU WANT
TO SAY TO THE SLIDE BEFORE I
START?
>> I WAS YEAH I WAS JUST GOING
TO MENTION THAT THIS LITTLE
SLIVER HERE THAT IS LABELED
ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION
REPRESENTS THE THE FUNDS THAT
ARE KICKED OVER TO THE
ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION FUND
EVERY YEAR AUTOMATICALLY AND IT
REPRESENTS FIVE PERCENT OF THE
FIFTY ONE REVENUE BY STATE
STATUTE WE'RE REQUIRED TO SPEND
ONE PERCENT BUT WE FAR EXCEED
THAT WITH THIS FIVE PERCENT
THEN AND ALL THE OTHER THINGS
THAT I'LL SHOW YOU LATER ON IN
THE PRESENTATION.
SO WE WANT TO GO AHEAD, DALIL.
>> THANK YOU.
I WONDERED ON THE LEFT HAND
GRAPH WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENT
COLORS MEAN?
WHAT IS IT?
>> YEAH, SO THE BLUE REPRESENTS
THE MAJOR STREET REVENUE AND
THE THE ORANGE IS THE LOCAL
REVENUE.
>> OK, GOT IT.
YES I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT THOUGH
I SHOULD HAVE PUT THAT ON
THERE.
>> THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN HELPFUL
.
OK BUT THE TOTAL AMOUNT IS OK.
SORRY MOLLY SORRY BAD TIMING SO
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION LAST
YEAR PASSED A RESOLUTION
RECOMMENDING THAT WE BUMP UP
THE ALLOCATION FROM THE FIFTY
ONE FUNDS TO THE TRANSPORTATION
.
WE HAD A RECOMMENDATION
OF TWENTY PERCENT AND I'M
CURIOUS WHETHER THAT
RECOMMENDATION SORT OF MADE IT
INTO THE PROCESS IF THERE'S ANY
POSSIBILITY TO INCREASE THE ALL
THE OLD FUND ALLOCATION AT SOME
POINT DURING THIS PROCESS I
WOULD SAY FOR THIS YEAR IT'S
NOT LIKE IT'S NOT IS NOT
INCLUDED AS PART OF THE
RECOMMENDED BUDGET.
HOWEVER, THAT BEING SAID,
CERTAINLY COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE
ALLOWED TO PROPOSE AMENDMENTS
TO THAT RECOMMENDED BUDGET.
HOWEVER, IF THEY ARE PROPOSING
AN AMENDMENT THEY WOULD HAVE TO
FIND AN OFFSET MEANING IF WE'RE
TO INCREASE THAT TRANSFER
SOMETHING THAT WE'RE PROVIDING
FOR THESE CATEGORIES HAS TO BE
GIVEN UP AND SO THEY WOULD HAVE
TO THEY WOULD HAVE TO INDICATE
WHAT THAT WOULD BE.
THANK YOU.
YOUR ALSO RELATED TO THAT MARTY
.
SO WE MADE THAT REQUEST I THINK
A FEW MONTHS AGO WAS A POLICY
REQUEST.
DID WE JUST MISS THE
OPPORTUNITY AND THAT THAT
REQUEST WOULD BE CONSIDERED
NEXT YEAR FOR NEXT YEAR'S
PROPOSED BUDGET OR DID THAT WAS
THE REQUEST RECEIVED STILL WITH
FIVE PERCENT?
I JUST I WASN'T SURE IF WE JUST
HAD BAD TIMING OR SOMETHING.
>> YEAH.
SO TYPICALLY WE START WORKING
THE BUDGET IN IN JANUARY WHEN
WE FIRST START FORMULATING
NUMBERS.
SO IF WE WOULD HAVE MISSED THAT
WINDOW IT LIKELY WOULD HAVE
BEEN A LITTLE BIT FURTHER TOO
FAR IN THE PROCESS TO BACKTRACK
NOT SAYING THAT IT COULDN'T
HAVE BEEN DONE BUT I DON'T
THINK IT WAS REALLY I KNOW THAT
RAYMOND MENTIONED IT BUT I
DON'T BELIEVE THAT IT GOT THE
APPROPRIATE ATTENTION THAT IT
SHOULD HAVE.
SO I THINK THAT IS AN AREA
WHERE WE COULD PERHAPS
STRENGTHEN THE COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN WHAT COMMISSION IS IS
PRESENTING FOR POLICY.
BUT AGAIN THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE
THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE DISCUSSED
AT A POLICY LEVEL OR OR THAT'S
KNOW.
THAT'S GOOD TO KNOW.
THAT'S SOMETHING TO KEEP IN
MIND LATER INTO THIS YEAR TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE RE UP THAT
REQUEST FOR NEXT YEAR NOT TO
SAY THAT AN AMENDMENT COULDN'T
BE BROUGHT FORWARD BY A COUNCIL
MEMBER OR SOMETHING RIGHT FOR
THIS YEAR.
ONE QUESTION SO I SEE THE
REVENUE BAR CHART OR SOMETHING
AROUND OR A LITTLE SHY
OF SIXTEEN MILLION BUT THE
EXPENDITURES ARE TWENTY ONE
MILLION IS IS THAT DISCREPANCY
ADDRESSED IN LATER SLIDES BY
OTHER FUNDING SOURCES OR.
WELL NO THAT WOULD BE
ULTIMATELY WHAT THAT IT
REPRESENTS.
THERE ARE OTHER REVENUE STREAMS
TO THIS FUND OTHER THAN THE
WEIGHT GASOLINE TAX SO
BASICALLY IT'S SPENDING THOSE
OTHER REVENUE SOURCES AND IN
THIS CASE IT HAPPENS TO BE BOND
FUNDS.
OK OK OK THANKS
.
>> OK SO WE'LL MOVE ON NOW AND
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE
ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION A
BIT.
>> YOU'LL SEE IN THIS CASE THE
REVENUE THE REVENUE LOOKS A BIT
ODD AS FAR AS WE'RE PRETTY
STEADY AND WE SEND OVER THE
FIVE PERCENT UNTIL WE GET OUR
FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY ONE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
ONE IS THE FISCAL YEAR IN WHICH
THE ALLEN CREEK BERM PROJECT
WAS GOING ON AND THE PROJECT
WENT OVER BUDGET.
THEREFORE IN ADDITION TO THE
FIVE PERCENT THE MAJOR STREET
FUND HAD TO KICK IN AN
ADDITIONAL JUST UNDER A MILLION
DOLLARS TO THAT PROJECT TO WRAP
IT UP.
SO THIS IS WHY YOU SEE THIS
SPIKE IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY ONE
IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWO WE'LL
GO BACK TO THE FIVE PERCENT BUT
THEN IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
THREE WE SEE ANOTHER WE SEE
ANOTHER SPIKE.
CAN YOU SEE THAT THE SAME
TRAJECTORY AS THE FIFTY ONE
REVENUE THE FIVE PERCENT THAT
THE FUND IS GETTING IS GOING UP
BUT ALSO IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
THREE WE HAD PLANNED FOR SOME
ADDITIONAL COST IN THIS FUND
DUE TO THE PROTECTED BIKE LANES
THAT WERE INSTALLED.
>> OUR INITIAL COST TO MAINTAIN
THOSE PROTECTED BIKE LANES WAS
EXTENSIVE SO WE WERE
ANTICIPATING HIGHER COSTS ER SO
WE WERE THROWING IN MORE THAN
THE FIVE PERCENT IN FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY THREE BUT THOSE COST
ACTUALLY DIDN'T COME TO
FRUITION AS HIGH AS WE HAD
THOUGHT SO WE WERE ABLE TO STAY
LEVEL FOR THE CONTRIBUTION INTO
THAT FUND ON THE RIGHT SIDE
OF THE SCREEN, SEE HOW THE
EXPENDITURES ARE LAID OUT FOR
THIS PARTICULAR BUDGET CYCLE
THE EXPENSES TOTAL ABOUT NINE
HUNDRED AND TWELVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
FOUR AND THEY'RE BROKEN DOWN BY
THE MAJOR CATEGORIES LISTED
HERE IN THE PIE CHART.
THE LARGEST CATEGORY HERE IS
THE THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
SEVEN SO SORRY THREE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLAR TWO
HUNDRED SIXTY TWO DOLLARS
EXPENSE THAT'S THE CAPITAL
PORTION OF THE ALTERNATIVE
TRANSPORTATION FUND IN THIS
CASE THE MAJORITY OF THOSE
COSTS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE
MAIN STREET ACT
OF TRANSPORTATION NEEDS
ANALYSIS AND THE CONCEPTUAL
DESIGN WOULD ALSO INCLUDE SOME
CROSSWALK IMPROVEMENTS AND SAFE
STREET FACILITY UPGRADES.
THE SECOND LARGEST CATEGORY IS
THIS TO NINETY HERE WHICH IS
DEDICATED TO RIGHT AWAY
MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
IF YOU WILL RECALL MY PREVIOUS
COMMENTS ABOUT HOW THE RIGHT
OF WAY IS ACCOUNTED FOR IN OUR
NORMAL OPERATIONS I MENTIONED
NO PLOWING AND SWEEPING.
WE JUST ACCOUNT FOR IN THE
MAJOR LOCAL STREET FUNDS.
THE EXCEPTION TO THAT IS WHEN
WE HAVE NON MOTORIZED
FACILITIES THAT HAVE DIFFERENT
MAINTENANCE CYCLES OR REQUIRE
SPECIFIC EQUIPMENT.
SO IN THE CASE WHERE WE'VE
INSTALLED THESE PROTECTED BIKE
LANES WE CAN'T DO THE BIKE LANE
WHEN WE DO THE STREET.
SO SPECIAL EQUIPMENT AND
SPECIAL LABOR GOES OUT AND THAT
TYPE OF MAINTENANCE IS EXPENSED
HERE IN THE ALTERNATIVE
TRANSPORTATION AND WE'RE AT
ABOUT JUST UNDER THREE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR TO
MAINTAIN THOSE SPECIALIZED NON
MOTORIZED FACILITIES I CAN'T
REALLY SEE.
SO ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
BEFORE I MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
ONE?
I'M NOT SEEING ANY RIGHT NOW.
OK, THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
NEXT FUND THAT WILL HAVE
SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES RELATED TO
TRANSPORTATION ITEMS THAT
STREET BRIDGE AND SIDEWALK
MILEAGE REPAIR MILEAGE.
THIS FUND IS FORECASTED TO
GENERATE ABOUT FOURTEEN POINT
TWO MILLION DOLLARS IN REVENUE
IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY FOUR
WHICH IS PREDOMINANTLY IN THIS
CASE THE MILLAGE JUST OVER TWO
MILLS AND AN EIGHTH OF A MILE
FOR THE SIDEWALK PORTION WHICH
IS JUST ABOUT UNDER A MILLION
DOLLARS FOR SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
YOU'LL NOTICE THIS SIGNIFICANT
IS INCREASE IN FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY TWO WHICH I PREVIOUSLY
MENTIONED BUNYORO SEEDS THEIR
BOND PROCEEDS IN THIS FUND AS
WELL.
BUT YOU'LL ALSO SEE SOME OTHER
CATEGORIES PREVIOUSLY WHICH IS
SIGNIFICANT TRANSFERS AND FROM
OTHER FUNDS.
SO IF ENGINEERING IS
RECONSTRUCTING A ROAD, GO OFF
AND DEAL WITH THE OTHER
INFRASTRUCTURE UNDER THE ROAD
THE SEWERS, THE WATER AND THOSE
FUNDS WILL CONTRIBUTE MONEY
INTO THAT FUND TO PAY FOR THOSE
FACILITIES ON THE EXPENSE SIDE
IN THIS FUND IT'S ABOUT TWENTY
SIX POINT FIVE MILLION DOLLARS
AND ONCE AGAIN WE'LL BE
SPENDING BOND PROCEEDS MAJOR
EXPENSE CATEGORIES HERE ARE
OBVIOUSLY THE SIXTEEN POINT
EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS IN STREET
RESURFACING PROJECTS BUT OTHER
SIGNIFICANT PROJECTS YOU WILL
SEE ACCOMPLISHED THROUGH SPUN
THIS UPCOMING CYCLE IS OVER SIX
MILLION FOR THE EAST MEDICAL
BRIDGE MAINTENANCE PROJECT ONE
POINT TWO MILLION DOLLARS IN
SIDEWALK AND RAMP REPAIRS AND
ALSO FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND IN
CROSSWALK AND BICYCLE BOULEVARD
IMPROVEMENTS
.
I'VE GOT A QUESTION ON THE SIDE
OF THE YOU KNOW THE THE BUMPER
PROCEEDS FROM TWENTY TO IT SO
ARE THERE PLANS TO DO THAT ANY
ANY MORE IN THE FUTURE, ANY
OTHER YEARS IN THE FUTURE?
>> NOT CURRENTLY, NO.
OK
.
IN ADDITION TO WHAT GASOLINE
TAX ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION
AND THE STREET BRIDGE AND
SIDEWALK MILEAGE THE CITY ALSO
HAS THREE OTHER VILLAGES THAT
MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS TO
TRANSPORTATION ACTIVITIES.
IT'S INDICATED HERE WE HAVE A
TOTAL OF THREE POINT TWO
MILLION THAT IS GENERATED
BETWEEN THE PEDESTRIAN
ALLOCATION OF THE WASHINGTON
COUNTY MENTAL HEALTH MILEAGE,
THE SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
MILEAGE AND FINALLY THE NEW
NEWLY APPROVED CLIMATE ACTION
MILEAGE OF THE FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY FOUR PROGRAM PLANS THAT
ARE FUNDED BY THOSE REVENUE
STREAMS ARE LISTED HERE IN THE
SLIDE.
YOU CAN SEE IN A COUNTY MENTAL
HEALTH MILEAGE THAT JUST OVER
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS WILL GO
TO FUND A PORTION OF THE STREET
LIGHT REPLACEMENT PROGRAM
CROSSWALK LIGHTING UPGRADES,
THE TRAFFIC CALMING PROGRAM AND
THE SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
MILEAGE WILL FUND.
THIS IS VARIOUS INSTALLATIONS
OF SIDEWALK AND WITH THE NEW
CLIMATE VILLAGE THE PLAN THAT
THEY HAVE TO SPEND THAT ONE
POINT ONE MILLION DOLLARS IS ON
UNCONTROLLED CROSSWALK
UPGRADES, DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
BIKE DISCOUNT PROGRAM AND SOME
BIKE LANE INFRASTRUCTURE.
OK, THANKS.
THIS IS MAYBE JUST A MENTAL
NOTE FOR ME TO TO RAYMOND AND
TO AT SOME POINT GET SOME MORE
DETAILS ON THE BIKE DISCOUNT
PROGRAM THAT HASN'T STARTED
YET.
>> HAS IT BEEN?
>> NO THAT'S THAT'LL START WITH
THE FISCAL TWENTY FOUR BUDGET
OK RIGHT OK WE'VE HAD SOME
PRELIMINARY DISCUSSIONS WITH
MISSY STOLTZ AND HER TEAM FROM
THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND INNOVATION.
I THINK HER TEAM IS PROBABLY
GOING TO TAKE A LEAD ON THAT
BUT WE'RE KIND OF ACTING IN A
SUPPORT ADVISORY CAPACITY.
YEAH OK.
THANK YOU.
IN ADDITION TO THE FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY FOUR PROPOSED BUDGET
ALLOCATIONS WE HAVE SOME
FUNDING SCRE STREAMS PROVIDED
BY GRANT PROCEEDS JUST ABOUT
ONE YEAR AGO ALMOST EXACTLY A
YEAR AGO CITY COUNCIL APPROVED
THE ALLOCATION OF TWO POINT
MILLION FOUR OF THE TWENTY FOUR
MILLION DOLLARS OF AMERICAN
RESCUE PLAN FUNDS FOR THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE VISION
ZERO PLAN.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
THOSE PLANS ARE PENDING
COMPLETION OF THE VISION ZERO
ACTION PLAN BY SAM SCHWARTZ.
SO THAT PROJECT IS MOVING IN
ADDITION, THE TRANSPORTATION
GROUP WAS SUCCESSFUL IN
ACQUIRING THE USDOT SAFE
STREETS ROADS AT THREE POINT
EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS WHICH
THEY WILL BE FUNDING THE SPEED
MANAGEMENT PILOT AS WELL AS
FURTHER IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
FOR VISION ZERO.
SO WE HAVE A TOTAL OF SIX POINT
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS IN ACTIVE
GRANTS CURRENTLY
RIGHT.
SO IF WE TAKE A LOOK AT ALL
OF THE CATEGORIES THAT WE HAVE
PLANNED FOR THIS UPCOMING
FISCAL YEAR, WE LIKE TO PUT IT
ALL IN ONE SPOT SO THAT IT
MAKES IT PUTS EVERYTHING IN ONE
PLACE.
SO WE HAVE AN IDEA OF THE
INVESTMENT WE'RE MAKING IN
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION IN THE
FISCAL YEAR.
SO WITH VARIOUS FUNDING SOURCES
AND VARIOUS ACTIVITIES
HAPPENING OVER THE COURSE
OF THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR, WE'RE
PLANNING TO INVEST AND WE HAVE
BUDGETED OVER SIX AND A HALF
MILLION DOLLARS.
SO THAT DOESN'T INCLUDE ANY
OF THE GRANT FUNDS OR PROCEEDS
THAT WE HAVE BUT WE ARE
INVESTING A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
IN ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION ITEMS
THIS COMING FISCAL QUESTIONS
FROM NEW OK AND AS I PREVIOUSLY
MENTIONED, WE HAVE A HOLD ON
REAL QUICK.
>> I SEE DERMOSCOPY SO I THINK
THIS WAS APPEARED SOMEWHERE
ELSE.
BUT CAN YOU TELL ME HOW THAT
SIX AND A HALF MILLION DOLLARS
PLAN FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
FOUR COMPARES TO PRIOR YEARS?
I CAN BUT NOT OFF THE TOP OF MY
HEAD.
I WOULD HAVE TO WE WE KIND
OF DO THIS EVERY YEAR SO I HAVE
TO GO BACK OVER THE PREVIOUS
PRESENTATIONS AND I CAN
CERTAINLY SEND THAT ONTO TO
RAYMOND AND CHRIS AND THEY CAN
JUST DISPERSE IT TO THE TO THE
COMMISSION.
BUT YEAH I SHOULD BE ABLE TO
PULL THAT EASILY.
>> THANK YOU.
SURE.
AND IN THE SLIDE THAT'S FROM
ALL FUNDING SOURCES RIGHT.
>> YES.
ALL FUNDING SOURCES WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE GRANTS THAT I
JUST SPOKE ABOUT.
OK,
AS I PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED
ON THE STREET BRIDGE AND
SIDEWALK MILEAGE SLIDE, WE'RE
MAKING A SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT
IN ROADS THIS FISCAL YEAR THAT
IS AN INVESTMENT OF TWENTY FIVE
MILLION DOLLARS THAT CONTINUES
TO GO TOWARDS SUPPORTING THE
GOAL OF ACHIEVING 80 PERCENT
OF ROADS IN GOOD OR BETTER
CONDITION BY TWENTY TWENTY SIX
AGAIN A SIMILAR TO ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION ROAD WORK IS
FUNDED BY VARIOUS FUNDING
SOURCES INCLUDING THOSE LISTED
HERE AND WE ALSO LIKE TO
COORDINATE PROJECTS WITH OTHER
WITH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
GROUPS INCLUDING UMPTY AND THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
TO NAME A FEW.
AND FINALLY AGAIN IN THIS
YEAR'S BUDGET WE ARE SUPPORTING
THE SIDEWALKS NO CLEARANCE
PILOT PROGRAM.
THIS IS THE SECOND YEAR OF THE
PROGRAM.
THE FIRST YEAR WE DIDN'T SEE A
WHOLE LOT OF ACTIVITIES SO WE
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THIS
PROGRAM TO SEE IF WE CAN GET
SOME TRACTION AGAIN THE WEATHER
WAS HEAVY AND LIGHT AND A
LITTLE BIT ALL OVER THE PLACE.
SO WE'RE GIVING THIS ANOTHER
ANOTHER GO TO SEE IF WE CAN GET
SOME LEGS UNDER THIS PROGRAM.
BUT THAT REMAINS SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE COMMITTED TO AND IS
FUNDED IN THE UPCOMING BUDGET
CYCLE.
>> SO THAT CONCLUDES WHAT I
HAVE TO PRESENT THIS EVENING.
BUT I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
FURTHER QUESTIONS THAT YOU
MIGHT HAVE.
MOLLY.
YEAH.
SO IF I'M REMEMBERING CORRECTLY
LAST IN LAST YEAR'S BUDGET
ERIKA PUT FORWARD AN AMENDMENT
TO FUND SOME QUICK BUILD LIKE
SOME TROPICAL AND QUICK BUILD
PROJECTS.
>> I THINK THAT WAS TWO YEARS
AGO ACTUALLY THAT WAS TWO YEARS
I THINK THAT WAS IN TWENTY
ONE'S BUDGET OR TWENTY TWO IS
BUDGET SORRY ISN'T THAT RIGHT
RAYMOND THAT WAS THAT WAS I
THINK IT WAS AMENDMENT NUMBER
NINE OF THE BUDGET IF I RECALL
CORRECTLY.
DID THOSE GET DONE.
SOME OF THEM DID SO FOR EXAMPLE
SOME OF THE PAYMENT MARKINGS
LIKE WHAT IS IT MAPLE AND
MILLER FOR EXAMPLE, SOME BIKE
LANE IMPROVEMENTS AROUND
LIBERTY WERE DONE BUT THE
THINGS THAT DIDN'T GO IN WERE
SOME OF THOSE VERTICAL DEVICES
BECAUSE WE WERE WAITING TO GET
THAT SWEEPING EQUIPMENT.
SO WE ACTUALLY BOUGHT SOME
OF THOSE MATERIALS AND THEY'RE
JUST WAITING TO BE INSTALLED
UNTIL WE GET THE THE SWEEPING
EQUIPMENT.
THERE WAS ALSO SOME PAVEMENT
MARKING CONTRACT THINGS THAT WE
RAN INTO LATE LAST CONSTRUCTION
SEASON.
BUT BUT YEAH, SOMEONE IN AND
THEN I CAN REFER YOU BACK TO
THOSE PROJECTS IDENTIFIED
THROUGH THEIR IMPLEMENTATION
COMMITTEE BECAUSE THEN MY NEXT
QUESTION WAS IN THE ABSENCE
OF ONGOING FUNDING FOR QUICK
BUILDS OUR IS IS ARE ONE
OF THESE BUCKETS DOES THAT
INCLUDE MORE QUICK BUILDS LIKE
ONE OF THE YOU KNOW IT'S NOT
CALLED OUT SPECIFICALLY.
>> IT DOES.
YEAH.
WE HAVE ACTUALLY MARTY TOUCHED
ON IT I THINK TO THE BIG ONES
THERE'S TWO MILLION DOLLARS
OF THE ARPA FUNDS.
SOME OF THAT IS GOING TO QUIT
THE THEN WE ALSO GOT THE SAFE
STREETS FOR ALL WHICH HAS
ANOTHER TWO MILLION DOLLARS FOR
QUICK BUILDS AND THEN I
WOULDN'T BE SURPRISED THAT IF
THE CLIMATE MILLAGE WHICH IS
ALLOCATING ROUGHLY A MILLION
DOLLARS ANNUALLY MOVING FORWARD
WILL GO TOWARDS QUICK BUILDS
AND A MORE SUSTAINING AND LONG
TERM NATURE AS WELL.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU
.
OR ANY OTHER QUESTIONS ON THE
BUDGET PRESENTATION?
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
COMING IN AND SHARING THAT WITH
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
AND I LOOK FORWARD SENIOR NEXT
YEAR OR THAT WILL MOVE ON TO
THE NEXT INFORMATION ITEM ON
THE AGENDA WHICH IS THE SHARED
MICRO MOBILITY DISCUSSION WITH
SPIN WITH JIMMY GOLDMAN.
SO WE'RE JOINED BY JIMMY
GOLDMAN OF SPIN WHO WILL GIVE
AN OVERVIEW OF THEIR OPERATION
OF THE SCOOTERS AND BIKES NOW
IN ANN ARBOR AND ALSO ALONG THE
WAY ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU ALL HAVE.
SO LET'S DO THE SAME RULES.
JUST RAISE YOUR HAND AND WE'LL
CALL ON YOU AS THE QUESTIONS
COME UP SO WE HAVE JIMMY HE
YEAH.
>> CAN YOU CAN YOU SEE THE
SCREEN SHARE HERE JUST SAYS
LOADING UP.
>> OH PERFECT.
CAN YOU JUST GIVE ME A THUMBS
UP WHEN IT HAS LOADED WHEN YOU
CAN SEE THE SCREEN HERE.
>> YEP YEP.
PERFECT.
LET ME INTRODUCE MYSELF WHILE
THAT IS LOADING SO FIRST AND
FOREMOST THANK YOU TO THE
COMMISSION FOR HAVING ME TODAY.
SO MY NAME IS JIMMY GILMAN.
I LEAD GOVERNMENT PARTNERSHIPS
FOR SPIN CENTRAL REGION
INCLUDING THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AND REALLY EXCITED JUST TO CHAT
ABOUT OUR PROGRAMING.
I KNOW THE NEWEST PIECE OF OUR
PROGRAMING IS OUR BIKE PROGRAM
THAT WE DEPLOYED WITHIN THE
PAST COUPLE OF WEEKS.
SO I'D LOVE JUST TO TOUCH ON A
LITTLE BIT OF OUR BACKGROUND IN
ANN ARBOR SOME PROGRAMING THAT
WE'RE INCORPORATING RIGHT NOW
INCLUDING THE E BIKE PROGRAM.
IT'S AN EQUITY PROGRAMING AS
WELL AND KEEPING THIS
CONVERSATIONAL AS WELL.
SO IF ANY OF YOU ALL HAVE
QUESTIONS, FEEL FREE TO JUMP IN
EITHER WITH A RAISED HANDS OR
AT THE END WE CAN OPEN DIALOG
AS WELL.
SO LOOK FORWARD TO TO JUST
CHATTING ABOUT OUR PROGRAM AND
CAN YOU ALL SEE IS IT HAS THIS
LOADED LOADING STILL DOING OK
AND JIMMY I WITH THAT RAYMOND
JIMMY JUST A HEADS UP YOUR
BOOKMARKS ARE STILL UP ON THE
PRESENTATION.
>> YOU MIGHT WANT TO MINIMIZE
THAT ONE.
OK SO THAT'S LIKE INTENTIONAL
OR NOT.
>> NO ON MY SCREEN I HAVE LET'S
SEE ON MY SCREEN I HAVE
PRESENTED OCEAN VIEW ALL RIGHT
NOW SOME SCREEN SHARING BUT
IT'S IT'S ALL BLACK.
>> LET ME LET ME READ THIS FROM
THE BEGINNING HERE.
>> APOLOGIES FOR THE DELAY.
NO PROBLEM.
AND JIMMY, IF YOU HAVE ANY IF
YOU CAN SAY YOU HAVE DIFFICULTY
I CAN I ASSUMING THIS IS
SIMPLER.
>> YEP.
YOU'RE THAT GOOD NOW I GUESS
YOU COULD GET THE POWER OFF AND
POWER ON BUT IN THE AGE OLD
TRICK PERFECT'S WELL WITH THAT
I'LL JUMP INTO SOME PROGRAM
BACKGROUND.
>> SO WE'VE BEEN OPERATING SPIN
THAT IS IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IN AT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN SINCE THE SPRING
OF TWENTY NINETEEN AND IT GOT
TO HAVE A FORMAL PARTNERSHIP
BOTH WITH THE CITY AND THE
UNIVERSITY SPLITTING OUR
VEHICLES EQUALLY BETWEEN THE
CITY AND THE UNIVERSITY AND
DURING THAT TIME WE'VE SEEN
MORE THAN SIX HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THOUSAND TRIPS UNSPIN
MICRO MOBILITY DEVICES FOR
CONTEXT THAT SOMEWHERE IN THE
ONE HUNDRED PLUS RANGE
OF METRIC TONS OF CARBON
DIOXIDE AVOIDED FROM BEING
EMITTED TO THE ATMOSPHERE BASED
REPLACING CAR TRIPS.
SO I THINK IT'S HELPFUL
THINKING ABOUT THE THE SCALE
OF A PROGRAM LOOKING BACK A FEW
YEARS AND REALLY PUTTING INTO
NUMBERS THE IMPACT IN THE
AMOUNT OF RIDERSHIP THAT WE'VE
SEEN IN OUR BRAIN DEVICES SO
REALLY JUST WANTED TO TO START
WITH SOME OF THAT CONTEXT AND
BACKGROUND AND SPIN SINCE THAT
TIME IN TWENTY NINETEEN HAS
REALLY GROWN AS A COMPANY IN A
LOT OF WAYS AS WELL.
FIRST AND FOREMOST ONE THING
THAT HAS BEEN A MAJOR CHANGE
FOR US IS A PARTNERSHIP WITH
BERLIN BASED HERE MOBILITY HERE
IS THE LARGEST MICRO MOBILITY
PROVIDER IN EUROPE OPERATING IN
TWENTY TWO COUNTRIES ACROSS
EUROPE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
THREE HUNDRED PLUS DIFFERENT
MUNICIPALITY AND TOGETHER THE
SPINTO YOUR COMPANY IS THE
LARGEST MAKER MOBILITY PROVIDER
IN THE WORLD.
WE COLLECTIVELY SO I REALLY
LIKE TO JUST MENTION THAT TO
TALK ABOUT HOW MUCH WE'VE
LEARNED FROM OUR EUROPEAN
COUNTERPARTS WHO MAYBE A COUPLE
OF YEARS AHEAD OF MICRO
MOBILITY IN THE NORTH AMERICAN
CONTEXT AND HOW MUCH THEY'VE
LEARNED FROM US AS WELL BUT
REALLY PUTTING US IN A POSITION
TO CONTINUE TO SCALE IMPACT
TOGETHER ON A GLOBAL SCALE
PROVIDING A SUSTAINABLE AND
ACCESSIBLE TRANSPORTATION FORUM
SPECIFICALLY IN THE CONTEXT
OF ANN ARBOR.
WE'VE ALREADY EXPANDED UPON OUR
INITIAL INITIAL FLEET
OF SCOOTERS IN THE CITY AND AT
THE UNIVERSITY EARLY ITERATIONS
OF OUR PROGRAM WE HAD FLEET
NUMBERS OF TWO HUNDRED TO TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY VEHICLES
SPLIT EVENLY BETWEEN THE CITY
AND THE UNIVERSITY.
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE FOUR HUNDRED
E SCOOTERS AND ONE HUNDRED E
BIKES WHICH I'LL CHAT MORE
ABOUT IN SOME SUBSEQUENT SLIDES
TO REALLY HAVE ABOUT DOUBLE THE
FLEET OF VEHICLES OUT THERE AND
HAVE CONTINUED TO SEE THAT
RIDERSHIP AND DEMANDS MORE
VEHICLES OUT THERE IN THE FLEET
.
ACTUALLY WE'VE SEEN INCREASES
IN NUMBER OF RIDES PER VEHICLE
OVER THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS.
SO SOMETHING THAT WE HOPE TO
CONTINUE TO SEE THAT TREND
WORKING WITH OUR PARTNERS AT
THE CITY AND AT THE UNIVERSITY
TO CONTINUE TO BUILD THE
PROGRAM AND SEE STRONG
RIDERSHIP ON THE VEHICLES.
>> WE'VE ALSO USED OUR ANN
ARBOR PROGRAM AS A MODEL IN
TERMS OF DEVELOPING
PARTNERSHIPS WITH OTHER CITIES
AND ALSO OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH
THE UNIVERSITY TO DEVELOP
PARTNERSHIPS AT OTHER
UNIVERSITIES AS WELL IN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN INCLUDING IN
YPSILANTI AND EASTERN MICHIGAN
UNIVERSITY, LANSING AND EAST
LANSING, MICHIGAN STATE AND OUR
NEWEST PROGRAM WHICH WILL BE
LAUNCHING ACTUALLY PROBABLY
WITHIN THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS
IN MOUNT PLEASANT AT CENTRAL
MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY.
IT'S REALLY WHAT WE'VE LEARNED
IN ANN ARBOR IN OUR PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE CITY, IN OUR
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNIVERSITY
AND JUST IN OUR DEPLOYMENT
OF OUR OPERATIONS WE'VE BEEN
ABLE TO TAKE TO OTHER
COMMUNITIES IN MICHIGAN AND
REALLY SCALE THE IMPACT
OF ESTABLISHING A MICRO
MOBILITY SYSTEM TO AGAIN
PROVIDE THAT ACCESSIBLE AND
SUSTAINABLE MODE AND FILLING IN
THOSE LAST MILE GAPS THAT ARE
THAT ARE SO NEEDED IN IN CITIES
ACROSS NORTH AMERICA.
>> SO WITHOUT FURTHER ADO, I'D
LOVE TO CHAT A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
OUR BIKE PROGRAM THAT I'M SURE
MANY MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION
ARE CURIOUS ABOUT SOMETHING
THAT WE LAUNCHED JUST OVER TWO
WEEKS AGO IN SUPEREXCITED TO
REPORT ON OUR BIKES ON OUR BIKE
PROGRAMING AND JUST SOME OF THE
INITIAL DATA THAT WE'VE SEEN
THUS FAR IN ANN ARBOR.
SO AS I MENTIONED, THE LAUNCH
DATE OF EBIX WAS APRIL 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND HAVE
DEPLOYED ONE HUNDRED BIKES
SHARED EVENLY BETWEEN THE CITY
AND THE UNIVERSITY IN ADDITION
TO THE FLEET OF FOUR HUNDRED E
SCOOTERS THAT THAT WE ALREADY
HAVE DEPLOYED.
AND YOU CAN SEE SOME PICTURES
HERE OF SOME FAMILIAR FACES
THAT YOU ALL MAY KNOW TESTING
OUT THE BIKES DURING OUR RIBBON
CUTTING CEREMONY.
SO REALLY EXCITED TO OFFER
MULTIMODAL OPTIONS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF BENEFITS I
THINK OF BOTH E SCOOTERS AND
BIKES SEPARATELY AS DIFFERENT
MODES EXISTING IN THIS MICRO
MOBILITY.
SOME OF THOSE THAT I'LL CHAT
ABOUT IN SOME OF THE FOLLOWING
SLIDES HERE IN TERMS OF SOME
OF THE SPECIFICATIONS OF OUR
BIKE, THERE'S A LONGER LIST
THAT I LIST HERE ON THE RIGHT
SIDE THAT I CAN SHARE WITH YOU
ALL JUST TO SEE WHAT ALL OF THE
COMPONENTS ARE AND SOME OF THE
HIGHLIGHTS OF IT.
WHAT I LIKE TO CHAT ABOUT SOME
OF THESE KEY COMPONENTS ON THE
LEFT HERE FIRST AND FOREMOST
SWAPPABLE BATTERY WITH UP TO
ONE HUNDRED MILES OF RANGE.
THE SWAPPABLE ASPECT OF THIS IS
A GAME CHANGER MICRO MOBILITY
DEVICES BOTH IN TERMS OF EA
BIKES AND SCOOTERS ARE MOVING
THAT SWAPPABLE BATTERY MODEL
OUR ENTIRE FLEET HERE IN ANN
ARBOR IS NOW IS SWAPPABLE WHICH
MEANS WE CAN TAKE BATTERIES TO
OUR BIKES AND SCOOTERS.
THE FIELDS SWAP OUT THE
DEAD BATTERY PUT IN A FRESH
BATTERY AND THEN MOVE FROM
VEHICLE TO VEHICLE RATHER THAN
PICKING UP ALL OF OUR BIKES OR
SCOOTERS, BRINGING THEM BACK TO
A WAREHOUSE AND HAVING TO TAKE
MULTIPLE ROUNDS BACK AND FORTH
TO CONDUCT OUR CHARGING TO
REALLY REDUCES THE VEHICLE
MILES TRAVELED OF OUR
OPERATIONS AND OUR VANS OUT
THERE IN THE FIELDS AND
SOMETHING THAT'S A MAJOR WIN
FROM A SUSTAINABLE PERSPECTIVE
AND THESE BATTERIES ON THE
BIKES HAVE UP TO ONE HUNDRED
MILES OF RANGE WHICH IS A
REALLY BIG NUMBER FOR ANY
OF YOU ALL THAT AND PERSONALLY
BIKES OR JUST WE'RE FAMILIAR
WITH EARLIER ITERATIONS
OF MICRO MOBILITY.
WE HAD SCOOTERS BACK AT OUR
IMPETUS AS A COMPANY THAT THEIR
MILEAGE, THEIR MILEAGE RANGE
WOULD BE ABOUT THREE TO FIVE
MILES.
SO REALLY GETTING UP TO THAT
ONE HUNDRED NUMBER IS A HUGE
WIN ALLOWS MULTIPLE TRIPS TO BE
TAKEN ON THESE VEHICLES AND
LONGER TRIPS FOR LONGER
COMMUTES OR RECREATION RIDING
SPECIFICALLY ON BIKES.
SO YEAH SO THERE DOUGLAS
OBVIOUSLY BUT YOU GUYS THE
COMPANY REDISTRIBUTES THEM
AROUND THE CITY I'M ASSUMING
CORRECT.
>> SO WE'VE A REBALANCING IS
THE INDUSTRY JARGON THAT WE USE
SO WE'LL PICK UP VEHICLES THAT
EITHER ARE HAVE NOT BEEN RIDDEN
IN A DAY OR LET'S SAY THIRTY
SIX HOURS.
WE'LL FILTER BY THAT TO MAKE
SURE WE'RE PICKING UP THE
VEHICLES AND REDEPLOYING THOSE
AT PROPER PARKING LOCATIONS OR
IF WE EVER RECEIVE A NOTICE
THAT A VEHICLE HAS BEEN
IMPROPERLY PARKED BY A USER OR
SOMEONE HAS TIPPED IT OVER WILL
FILTER BY THAT AS WELL WITHIN
OUR INTERNAL OP SYSTEM TO PICK
THAT VEHICLE UP ROUND UP ANY
INCIDENTS OF THOSE VEHICLES AND
REDEPLOY THEM IN A SPECIFIC
SPOT AND SOME OTHER HIGHLIGHTS
OF OUR SPECIFICATIONS ON THE
BIKES HERE ARE PUNCTURE PROOF
TIRES.
SO THESE TIRES ARE FOAM FILLED
NOT INFLATED.
SO WE NEVER HAVE ISSUES WITH
FLATS BUT STILL HAVE THE SAME
PERFORMANCE AS INFLATABLE
TIRES.
THE BIKES ALSO HAVE ADJUSTABLE
SEAT AND A BASKET WITH TWENTY
FIVE POUNDS OF CAPACITY.
SO FOR FOLKS WHO ARE TAKING
LONGER TRIPS THAT ABILITY TO
ADJUST TO SEAT AND SIT ON A
MICRO MOBILITY MODE AS WELL AS
THAT BASKET IN THE FRONT FOR
FOLKS WHO HAVE CARGO IS A
REALLY APPEALING USE CASE FOR
BIKES AND SOMETHING THAT I'M
MENTIONED LATER IN OUR RIDER
FEEDBACK THAT WE'VE HEARD THUS
FAR AS WELL.
ONE OTHER COMPONENT HERE IS A
WIRELESS CHARGER AND PHONE
HOLDER ON THE DASHBOARD OF THE
VEHICLE FROM A PRACTICALITY
PERSPECTIVE IT ALLOWS USERS TO
CHARGE AS THEY ARE GOING FROM
SPOT TO SPOT WHICH WE'VE HEARD
A LOT OF POSITIVE FEEDBACK FROM
FOLKS AND FROM A SAFETY
PERSPECTIVE IT CAN ALSO DOUBLE
AS HANDS FREE GPS NAVIGATION TO
NAVIGATE FROM SPOT TO SPOT
WHILE RIDING BIKES RATHER THAN
HOLDING A PHONE IN HAND OR
PULLING A PHONE OUT WHILE GOING
FROM SPOT TO SPOT BEING ABLE TO
HAVE THAT ON THE DASHBOARD AND
A HANDS FREE CAPACITY.
SO I LIKE TO MENTION THAT
FEATURE AGAIN BOTH FROM A
PRACTICALITY AND A SAFETY LENS
AND SOMETHING THAT WE'VE HEARD
A LOT OF POSITIVE FEEDBACK
ABOUT AND I HAVE SOME VERY
INITIAL STATISTICS TO SHARE
WITH YOU ALL HERE.
I THINK THESE NEED TO BE TAKEN
WITH A GRAIN OF SALT JUST
BECAUSE WE'RE SO EARLY IN THE
PROGRAM AND A LOT OF WHAT WE'VE
BEEN SEEING IS JUST FOLKS
TRYING OUT THE BIKES AS A NEW
VEHICLE MODE GETTING ACCUSTOMED
TO THEM DOING SHORTER TRIPS ON
THEM JUST TO TO TRY THEM AS A
NEW OPTION AND TO DECODE A
LITTLE BIT HERE ON THESE
GRAPHS.
EIGHTY IS OUR INTERNAL NAMING
FOR OUR BIKES AND THESE NINE
MAX VERSION TWO POINT TWO IS
OUR INTERNAL NAMING FOR OUR
SCOOTERS JUST TO TO DECODE THAT
A BIT.
SO ON THIS GRAPH IN THE TOP
LEFT, THIS IS SHOWING TOTAL
NUMBER OF RIDES PER VEHICLE PER
DAY DEPLOYED IN THE FLEET.
>> YOU CAN SEE IT'S BEEN FAIRLY
COMPARABLE THUS FAR IN TERMS
OF TRIPS PER VEHICLE PER DAY.
WE SEE A COUPLE OF SPIKES
TOWARDS THE BEGINNING HERE
WHERE BIKES ARE OUTPACING THE
SCOOTERS.
WE SEE A COUPLE OF PEAKS ON THE
RIGHT SIDE.
MORE RECENTLY WE'RE SCOOTERS
HAVE OUTPACED BIKES BUT OVERALL
THAT TRIPS PER VEHICLE NO HOLD
FOR THE LAST TWO WEEKS HAS BEEN
FAIRLY COMPARABLE.
I'M INTERESTED INTERESTED TO
SEE WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE MOVING
FORWARD GENERALLY WITH OUR DATA
SHOWS IS MORE TRIPS BUT SHORTER
TRIPS ON SCOOTERS AND SLIGHTLY
LESS FREQUENT.
BUT LONGER TRIPS ON BIKES
SUGGESTING EITHER A LONGER
COMMUTES OR RECREATIONAL USE
FOR BIKES SPECIFICALLY AND
SHORTER LAST MILE HOP ON HOP
OFF TRIPS FOR BIKES.
SO I WOULD BE I'M CURIOUS TO
SEE WHAT THAT THAT DATA SHOWS
AS WE MOVE INTO FUTURE WEEKS
AND MONTHS OF THE PROGRAM.
>> AND AGAIN ON THE BOTTOM
RIGHT HERE YOU CAN SEE OUR
AVERAGE TRIP LENGTHS AS I JUST
MENTIONED RIGHT NOW THEY SHOW
VERY SIMILAR AGAIN MY
HYPOTHESIS THERE AND WHAT WE'VE
AND SOME OTHER PROGRAMS IS IN
THE FIRST COUPLE OF WEEKS FOLKS
TAKING SHORTER TRIPS ON THE
BIKES JUST TO TEST THEM OUT AS
A MODE, UNLOCKING ONE, TAKING
IT ON A SHORT LAP AROUND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR FROM JUST A
SHORT TEST RIDE TO BECOME
ACQUAINTED WITH THE MODE.
SO I WOULD EXPECT AND I CAN
REPORT NUMBERS BACK TO THE
COMMISSION THAT THESE BIKE TRIP
LENGTHS WOULD BECOME LONGER
COMPARED TO SCOOTER TRIP LINKS
IN THE FUTURE.
WE JUST WANTED TO REPORT ON
WHAT WE'RE SEEING AT LEAST IN
THE FIRST COUPLE OF WEEKS HERE
YOU CAN SEE A HEAT MAP HERE AS
WELL OF TRIP STARTS FOR OUR
BIKES.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY VERY INITIAL
A LOT OF TRIPS HAPPENING IN
DOWNTOWN AND TOWARDS THE
UNIVERSITY BUT TRIP STARTS
THROUGHOUT DIFFERENT PARTS
OF THE CITY AS WELL.
ONE THING THAT WE HOPE TO DO IS
EXPAND DEPLOYMENT AND RIDERSHIP
IN ALL PARTS OF THE CITY TO
OFFER THIS AS AN ACCESSIBLE
SERVICE
NO MATTER THE GEOGRAPHY
OR WHERE ONE LIVES.
SO I WOULD EXPECT THESE TRIPS
STARTS THAT WE ARE SEEING
FURTHER AWAY FROM DOWNTOWN IN
OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE CITY
TO FURTHER POPULATE AND TO SEE
A LOT MORE EVIDENCE OF TRIPS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY HERE.
BUT AGAIN, I WANTED TO REPORT
BACK ON AT LEAST WHAT WE'VE
SEEN IN THE FIRST COUPLE
OF WEEKS OF THE PROGRAM AND
I'VE SORT OF INTERTWINES RIDER
FEEDBACK AND WHAT WE'VE HEARD
THUS FAR THROUGHOUT THE
PRESENTATION.
BUT WE LOVE TO JUST CHAT ABOUT
A COUPLE OF POINTS IN
PARTICULAR.
SO AGAIN DETERMINE A DEFINITE
USE CASE FOR BIKES FOR LONGER
COMMUTES AND RECREATION
OPPORTUNITIES DURING OUR RIBBON
CUTTING CEREMONY.
I KNOW OUR GENERAL MANAGER WAS
HEARING A LOT OF THAT FEEDBACK.
WE'VE BEEN HEARING THAT FROM
OUR STAFF OR LISTENING TO FOLKS
IN THE FIELDS WHO ARE EXCITED
ABOUT THIS MODE, THINKING ABOUT
TAKING LONGER COMMUTES OR TRIPS
THAT INVOLVE CARGO AS WELL.
SO THAT'S BEEN IN OTHER
PROGRAMS AND JUST BIKES IN
GENERAL IS SOMETHING THAT WE'VE
LEARNED SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
ECHOED BY FOLKS WHO ARE USING
THE SERVICE HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AS WELL.
AND AGAIN THE EXCITEMENT
SURROUNDING THE HANDSPRING
NAVIGATION AND THE MOBILE PHONE
CHARGING CAPACITY IS SOMETHING
THAT HAS REALLY STRUCK FOLKS AS
WELL.
SO A FEATURE THAT WE'RE EXCITED
TO BRING IN I KNOW FOLKS ARE
NOTICING AS IS THE REAL VALUE
ADD FOR THEM AT THIS POINT.
>> I WANT TO PIVOT A BIT IN
CHAT ABOUT OUR EQUITY
PROGRAMING IN ANN ARBOR AS WELL
,SOMETHING THAT SORT OF IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THIS LAUNCH
OF BIKES WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO
TO PUSH AS WELL JUST TO BREAK
DOWN BARRIERS OF LACK
OF INFORMATION OF WHAT
RESOURCES ARE AVAILABLE AND
I'LL TOUCH THAT A BIT IN OUR
NEXT SLIDE HERE.
>> SO WE OFFER WHAT WE CALL OUR
SPIN ACCESS PROGRAM TO
RESIDENTS OF ANN ARBOR.
>> SO FOR ANY FOLKS WHO ARE
ENROLLED IN GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
PROGRAMS, THEY CAN APPLY FOR
SPIN ACCESS ON OUR WEBSITE,
UPLOADING AN ID FORM AND ANY
PROOF OF ENROLLMENT IN
GOVERNMENT SERVICES PROGRAMS.
THIS DISCOUNT WHEN ENROLLED IN
THE PROGRAM IS AT LEAST 50
PERCENT.
I THINK RIGHT NOW WE ACTUALLY
ON OUR PRICING IT'S CLOSER TO
ABOUT A 70 PERCENT DISCOUNT OFF
OF TRIPS.
SO SOMETHING THAT REALLY BREAKS
DOWN ECONOMIC BARRIERS TO ALLOW
FOLKS FROM DIFFERENT
SOCIOECONOMIC BACKGROUNDS TO
ACCESS AND USE OUR SERVICE FOR
FOLKS WHO MAY NOT HAVE A
SMARTPHONE OR MAYBE UNBANKED.
WE ALSO HAVE A CASH CARD OPTION
IS WHAT WE CALL IT SO FOLKS CAN
BUY THESE CARDS WHO ARE
ENROLLED IN OUR SPIN ACCESS
PROGRAM CAN UNLOCK A BIKE OR A
SCOOTER THAT IS IN FRONT
OF THEM BY TEXTING THE SERIAL
NUMBER OF THAT VEHICLE TO OUR
CUSTOMER SUPPORT TEAM AND THE
CODE ON THE CASH PER DAY
PURCHASE TO REMOTELY UNLOCK THE
VEHICLE IN THAT WAY AND THEN
WHEN ARRIVING AT A DESTINATION
CAN TEXT LOCK AND UNLOCK THE
VEHICLE UP AT THAT SPOT.
SO AGAIN, OUR SPEED ACCESS
PROGRAM IS FOCUSED ON REMOVING
AS MANY BARRIERS AS POSSIBLE
WHETHER THAT BE ECONOMIC
BARRIERS, TECHNOLOGY BARRIERS
OF ACCESS TO A SMARTPHONE TO
REALLY PROVIDING ACCESS TO AS
MANY FOLKS AND REACHING AS MANY
RESIDENTS WITH MICRO MOBILITY
AS POSSIBLE.
AND I THINK ANOTHER BARRIER IS
JUST AN UNDERSTOOD FINDING THAT
THIS SERVICE EXISTS AMONG MANY
FOLKS AND WE'RE TRYING TO
DEVELOP MORE PARTNERSHIPS WITH
DIFFERENT ACTORS IN THE CITY TO
REALLY DISTRIBUTE THAT
INFORMATION AND FIND SOME
DIFFERENT CHANNELS THROUGH
WHICH WE CAN DISTRIBUTE
INFORMATION AND INFORMATION
REGARDING ELIGIBILITY FOR OUR
SPEED ACCESS PROGRAM.
ONE OF THOSE CHANNELS IS A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
TO CONNECT WITH AFFORDABLE
HOUSING COMMUNITIES AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING SERVICE
PROVIDERS TO OFFER AUTOMATIC
ELIGIBILITY FOR ENROLLMENT FOR
FOLKS WHO ARE LIVE IN LOW
INCOME HOUSING COMMUNITIES TO
TO ENROLL IN OUR SPIN ACCESS
PROGRAM.
SO WE'VE SEEN AN UPTICK IN OUR
OPEN ACCESS ENROLLMENT THROUGH
THIS PARTNERSHIP, SOMETHING
THAT WE HOPE TO CONTINUE TO
PUSH OUT THIS NARRATIVE THROUGH
DIFFERENT INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS
WHICH WE'VE ALREADY STARTED
WITH THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION AND OTHER
ACTORS ASSOCIATED AND SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN HOPEFULLY HAVE A
REGULAR CADENCE WITH TO EXPAND
ACCESS, BREAK DOWN THAT
KNOWLEDGE GAP OF WHAT SERVICES
EXIST AND HOPEFULLY FIND OTHER
ACTORS IN THE CITY AS WELL
THROUGH WHICH TO DISTRIBUTE
THIS INFORMATION SO THAT FOLKS
KNOW ABOUT THIS AS AN OPTION.
>> SO AGAIN, SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE REALLY EXCITED IN
CONJUNCTION SORT OF WITH
ROLLING OUT BUYCKS TO CONTINUE
TO DISTRIBUTE INFORMATION ABOUT
WOULD LOVE IF ANYONE HAS ANY
FEEDBACK SPECIFICALLY ON HOW WE
CAN CONTINUE TO DISTRIBUTE THIS
NARRATIVE ABOUT OUR OPEN ACCESS
PROGRAM.
>> BUT WITH THAT I'LL CONCLUDE
MY PRESENTATION AND TAKE ANY
POINTS OF FEEDBACK WHETHER IT
BE ON THAT PROGRAMING OR
PROGRAMING IN GENERAL AND
REALLY JUST APPRECIATE YOU ALL
TAKING THE TIME TO HAVE ME
SPEAK TODAY.
>> I THINK HE MAY HAVE A FEW
MINUTES FOR SOME QUESTIONS.
JULIE, HI.
>> THANKS FOR THAT
PRESENTATION.
DO YOU HAVE ANY DATA ON USE BY
PEOPLE WITH THE CASH PASS AND
OTHER OTHER METRICS FOR
UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS?
>> YEAH, THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
I HOPE WE I WANT TO START
SHARING MORE.
I DON'T HAVE IT IN FRONT OF ME
NOW BECAUSE THIS HAS BEEN A
RECENT PUSH TO REALLY ESTABLISH
THE PROGRAM AND ENROLL MORE
FOLKS IN THE PROGRAM.
I KNOW THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
I'VE SHARED WITH RAYMOND ABOUT
AS WELL IS REPORTING ON THOSE
STATISTICS ON SORT OF A MONTHLY
CADENCE TO SEE THE PROGRESS OR
OTHER WAYS THAT WE CAN REACH
FOLKS TO ENROLL IN THE PROGRAM.
SO I DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS IN
FRONT OF ME RIGHT NOW.
I CAN FOLLOW UP WITH THOSE AND
SOMETHING THAT I PLAN TO SHARE
ON A SPECIFIC CADENCE MOVING
FORWARD TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
REALLY ARE ENROLLING FOLKS AND
MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE GETTING
THAT INFORMATION OUT THERE.
SO THE QUESTION AND YEAH, IT'S
SOMETHING THAT AS WE'RE SORT
OF INITIATING HAVEN'T
NECESSARILY TRACKED YET THUS
FAR BUT HAVE MEANS TO MOVING
FORWARD AND INTENTIONS TO
MOVING FORWARD.
>> JUST AS A FOLLOW UP, ARE YOU
ARE YOU THINKING OF KIND
OF STRATEGICALLY ABOUT PLACES
WHERE BIKES SHOULD BE DROPPED
OFF WITH THEY'RE MOVING AROUND
THE CITY SO THAT DIFFERENT
SUBPOPULATIONS HAVE ACCESS TO
THEM?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND THAT IS A BIG CONVERSATION
DURING OUR CONVERSATION WITH
THE HOUSING COMMISSION JUST TO
CHAT MORE ABOUT HOW WE CAN
DISTRIBUTE VEHICLES TO THE FULL
EXTENT OF THE CITY AND WHERE
THERE ARE FOLKS THAT MAY BE
ENROLLING IN OUR SPIN ACCESS
PROGRAM AND HOW WE CAN MATCH
GEOGRAPHIC DEPLOYMENT POINTS TO
SOME OF THOSE LOCATIONS.
SO DEFINITELY NARRATIVE THAT
HAS BEEN A POINT OF DISCUSSION
AND REALLY A POINT OF EMPHASIS
ON OUR PART AND AS WE SORT
OF ADD MORE AND MORE VEHICLES
TO THE PROGRAM REACHING
DIFFERENT GEOGRAPHIES
THROUGHOUT THE CITY AND HAVING
A SATURATION OF NUMBER
OF VEHICLES THAT FOLKS KNOW
THAT THEY CAN FIND A VEHICLE
WITHIN A QUARTER MILE OF WHERE
THEY ARE.
A GREATER SATURATION OF THOSE
VEHICLES REALLY HAS BEEN A
BYPRODUCT OF ADDITION OF MORE
VEHICLES TO THE FLEET.
SO SOMETHING THAT WE'RE HEARING
FEEDBACK ON, SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE HOPING TO RESPOND TO AND
ADDING THESE BIKES TO THE FLEET
IS MAKING IT EASIER
OPERATIONALLY AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE QUESTION.
>> RIGHT.
MOLLY, THANKS.
YEAH, THIS WAS REALLY
INTERESTING.
I HAD A QUESTION SO I HAD THE
SAME QUESTION AS JULIE AND
OTHER RELATED QUESTIONS.
SO THE IS THE ACCESS PROGRAM IS
THAT SOMETHING THAT'S BEEN IS
ROLLED OUT SORT OF EVERYWHERE?
IS THIS SOMETHING THAT YOU'RE
PILOTING HERE IN ANN ARBOR LIKE
WHAT'S THE SCALE OF THAT
PROJECT?
>> WE DO HAVE AVAILABLE IN MOST
OF OUR PROGRAMS IN THE UNITED
STATES THE SPECIFIC STRATEGIC
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE HOUSING
COMMISSION TO DISTRIBUTE THAT
INFORMATION THROUGH DIFFERENT
CHANNELS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SERVICE PROVIDERS IS SOMETHING
SPECIFIC TO TO HERE IN ANN
ARBOR THE CASH CARD FEATURE
OF UNLOCKING REMOTELY FOR FOLKS
WITHOUT A SMARTPHONE IS
AVAILABLE A FEW PROGRAMS ACROSS
THE COUNTRY I WOULD SAY
PROBABLY LESS THAN A QUARTER
BUT SOMETHING THAT WE WANTED TO
BRING SPECIFICALLY TO ANN ARBOR
BASED ON SOME OF THE FEEDBACK
THAT WE HAD HEARD FROM FOLKS
WHO ARE UNBANKED OR FOLKS WHO
MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO A
SMARTPHONE.
>> SO THAT IS SOMETHING WE HAVE
AGAIN ROLLED OUT IN A FEW
PROGRAMS BUT IS MORE UNIQUE
THAN BARBARA JUST TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT WE'RE TARGETING
DIFFERENT FOLKS AND RESPONDING
TO SOME OF THAT FEEDBACK SO I
THINK THAT'S HELPFUL TO HAVE
ANOTHER SORT OF TECHNICAL
QUESTION HOW HOW LONG DOES TEXT
TO UNLOCK TAKE VERSUS THE
STANDARD UNLOCKING METHOD?
IT SHOULD BE IN REAL TIME SO
YOU CAN TEXT TO OUR SUPPORT
TEAM AND THOSE GO TO THE TOP
OF OUR QUEUE OF OUR SUPPORT
TEAM TO UNLOCK IN REAL TIME.
WE'VE SEEN SOMETIMES IF SOMEONE
IS IN A LOWER NUMBER OF BARS, A
CERTAIN CELL AREA I CAN TAKE
YOU KNOW, THIRTY SECONDS TO A
MINUTE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
TO UNLOCK BUT GENERALLY IN REAL
TIME FOR THAT UNLOCK TO HAPPEN.
>> IT'S AN ACTUAL HUMAN WHO HAS
TO UNLOCK IT ON THE OTHER SIDE
ON OUR SUPPORT SIDE OF THINGS.
YEAH, THANKS.
YEP ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
OH PETER UM FOLLOWING UP ON THE
TEXT TO UNLOCK ARE THERE A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO DON'T HAVE A
SMARTPHONE WHO DO HAVE A
I
GUESS A NON SMARTPHONE THAT CAN
TEXT WITH LIKE
IT SEEMS LIKE
THE SAME BARRIER TO OWNING A
SMARTPHONE WOULD ALSO PREVENT
YOU FROM OWNING A REGULAR PHONE
THAT YOU CAN TEXT SO YEAH.
HAVE SOME SENSE ABOUT YOU.
>> IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
WE HAVE SOLD A HANDFUL OF THOSE
TEXT UNLOCK CARDS IN ANN ARBOR.
WE ALSO AND I'LL BE FULLY
TRANSPARENT REALIZE IT'S NOT A
CATCH ALL SOLUTION.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT CAN EXPAND
ACCESS TO FOLKS WHO DO HAVE A
PHONE BUT A NON SMARTPHONE
OPTION OR AGAIN FOLKS WHO MAY
NOT HAVE A BANK ACCOUNT WHO CAN
USE CASH CURRENCY TO PURCHASE
ONE OF THOSE CARDS.
SO FOLKS WHO HAVE A SMARTPHONE
BUT NOT ACCESS TO A BANK
ACCOUNT THAT WOULD STILL BE AN
OPTION FOR THEM.
SO WE'VE SOLD A FEW I THINK
THERE ARE OTHER THINGS THAT WE
COULD POSSIBLY INCORPORATE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR LIKE A
DELIVERY SYSTEM OF DEVICES TO A
SPECIFIC AREA FOR FOLKS WHO
COULD CALL IN COULD EMAIL COULD
HAVE OTHER OPTIONS TO START A
RIDE.
WE PILOTED SOME OF THOSE
SYSTEMS IN OTHER CITIES TO
CONTINUE TO BREAK DOWN THOSE
BARRIERS SO SO MY ANSWER IS
YES, WE'VE SEEN USE OF IT IS A
PERFECT SOLUTION.
NO, BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT I
THINK WE CAN USE AS A BUILDING
BLOCK FOR MOVING FORWARD.
THANK YOU.
YES.
THANK YOU MEGHAN.
>> YEAH, I THINK MUSSOMELI I
THINK I KIND OF HAVE THE SAME
QUESTION ABOUT POTENTIALLY
OTHER SOLUTIONS BEYOND LIKE I
THINK THE THE ACCESS CARD IS
LIKE LIKE YOU'RE SAYING A STEP.
I WOULD BE CURIOUS IF THERE ARE
OTHER OPTIONS DOWN THE LINE
MAYBE THAT LIKE YOU HEAR
FEEDBACK ABOUT EVENTUALLY I
THINK ULTIMATELY I JUST WANT TO
SAY LIKE THANKS FOR TALKING.
I REALLY APPRECIATED THE REALLY
INTERESTED IN LIKE EVEN EARLY
EVEN EARLY DATA SO I JUST HOPE
TO CONTINUE TO SEE USE THESE
THINGS, APPRECIATE THE SLIDES
IN THE DATA.
>> PERFECT.
THANK YOU FOR THE I APPRECIATE
THE WORDS AND THE FEEDBACK AND
REALLY IN GENERAL I THINK YOU
WERE EXCITED TO HAVE BOLSTERED
THE PROGRAMING HERE BUT THE
PROGRAM HERE AND JUST MICRO
MOBILITY IN GENERAL THERE'S A
LOT THAT WE CAN CONTINUE TO
BUILD ON WHETHER IT BE, YOU
KNOW, ADAPTIVE DEVICES FOR
FOLKS, DIFFERENT ABILITY LEVELS
OR COMFORT LEVELS TO USE MICRO
MOBILITY DELIVERY SYSTEMS TO
FURTHER BREAKDOWN THE DIFFERENT
WAYS THAT FOLKS CAN REACH US TO
HAVE A VEHICLE DELIVERED TO
THEM TO USE IN A SPECIFIC WAY.
>> SO THINGS THAT WE'VE ALREADY
STARTED SOME PRELIMINARY
CONVERSATIONS AND WITH RAYMOND
AND OTHERS AND JUST REALLY LOOK
FORWARD TO TAKING THE STEPS
THAT WE HAVE TAKEN AND BUILDING
ON THOSE IN THE FUTURE TO
THAT'S RELATED TO WHAT I WAS
GOING TO ASK JIM IS IS THERE A
WAY OTHER THAN BY BY VIRTUE
OF WHERE YOU DROP OFF THE
VEHICLE OR PICK UP A VEHICLE
WAY FOR PEOPLE TO REGISTER A
DESIRE FOR THEM TO BE
DISTRIBUTED IN A WAY IN THEIR
AREA OR AN AREA OF INTEREST?
>> YES, IT'S NOT NECESSARILY IN
REAL TIME AT THE MOMENT.
SO FOLKS CAN CALL OUR CUSTOMER
SUPPORT TEAM AND REQUEST HEY, I
LIVE AT SO-AND-SO ADDRESS.
WOULD YOU BE ABLE TO DEPLOY AT
CORNER OF SO-AND-SO STREET
WHERE THERE'S SUFFICIENT RIGHT
OF WAY REGULARLY AT THIS
LOCATION SO THAT I CAN USE
VEHICLES?
>> SO WE HAVE TAKEN THAT
FEEDBACK ON SORT OF MORE
OPERATIONAL AND PROGRAMMATIC
SCALE OF ADDING THAT IS A
REGULAR DEPLOYMENT POINT FOR US
IN TERMS OF DELIVERING IN REAL
TIME.
>> IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT
REALLY WE CAN OFFER SUPPORT
JUST IN TERMS OF OUR CUSTOMER
SUPPORT STRUCTURE AT THE MOMENT
.
BUT ADDING A SPECIFIC SPOT AND
HEARING FEEDBACK FROM THE
COMMUNITY AS HAVING THAT AS A
REGULAR DEPLOYMENT SPOT FOR US
WHEN WE ARE CONDUCTING THOSE
SWEEPS AND REBALANCES IS
SOMETHING THAT WE'VE CARRIED
OUT HERE FOR SURE.
>> BUT THERE ISN'T LIKE A
BUTTON IN YOUR APP WHERE YOU
CAN SAY LIKE IT WOULD BE NICE
IF THERE IS ONE HERE AND OK AT
THE MOMENT BUT IT'S GOOD
FEEDBACK AND IT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE'VE SORT OF PILOTED WITH
LIKE ADAPTIVE PROGRAMS.
HEY, CAN I HAVE A VEHICLE
DROPPED HERE AT THIS TIME FOR
ME TO USE TODAY OR WITH OUR
REGULAR SCOOTER PROGRAMING IN
TERMS OF HOW OUR SUPPORT TEAM
IS SET UP RIGHT NOW IT'S A
LITTLE BIT MORE COMPLICATED TO
HAVE IT IN REAL TIME BUT THINGS
THAT WE WE PILOTED A BIT AND
SOME OTHER PROGRAMS AND THEN
BIG PICTURE WISE YOU YOUR
COMPANY HAS FOR SCOOTERS AND
ONE HUNDRED BIKES AROUND THE
CITY.
HOW DO YOU HOW DOES HOW HAS
BEEN JUDGED THE SUCCESS OF THE
PROGRAM IN ANN ARBOR, YOU KNOW,
ADDING BIKES IS ENCOURAGING.
ARE YOU GUYS LOOKING TO ADD OR
REDUCE OR STAY THE SAME IN
TERMS OF NUMBERS AND THE
SERVICE YOU PROVIDE IN THE
FUTURE OR I SEE, YOU KNOW,
AVERAGE OF ONE TO TWO TRIPS A
DAY PER VEHICLE.
IS THAT HOW DOES THAT COMPARE
TO OTHER CITIES?
IS THAT CONSIDERED GOOD OR
LACKING?
JUST LOOKING TO GET AN IDEA
OF WHAT THE MEDIUM TERM FUTURE
HOLDS FOR YOUR SERVICE AND OUR
CITY.
YEAH, GREAT QUESTION.
SO GENERALLY WE SEE OUR SWEET
SPOT SORT OF ONE POINT ONE
TRIPS PER VEHICLE PER DAY IS
SORT OF OUR SWEET SPOT THAT WE
MEASURE A BALANCED BALANCED
MARKET IN EQUILIBRIUM YOU MIGHT
SAY THAT GENERALLY SUGGESTS
THAT THERE ARE ENOUGH VEHICLES
OUT THERE TO REACH SATURATION
IN DIFFERENT GEOGRAPHIES IN THE
CITY AND PROVIDE ACCESS FOR THE
DEMAND THAT IS THERE FOR FOLKS
.
BUT IF WE WERE TO GO BELOW THAT
NUMBER, MAYBE THERE ARE TOO
MANY VEHICLES OUT THERE THAT
ARE SITTING THERE NOT GETTING
USED REGULARLY IF WE GO ABOVE
THAT NUMBER AND ACTUALLY HERE
IN ANN ARBOR I THINK OUR
AVERAGE ON THE YEAR IS CLOSER
TO ABOUT ONE POINT SEVEN TO TWO
TRIPS PER VEHICLE PER DAY
SUGGESTING THIS PROGRAM COULD
INCORPORATE MORE MICRO MOBILITY
DEVICES TO REACH THE DEMAND
THAT EXISTS IN DIFFERENTIABLE
IF HE'S IN THE CITY.
>> SO AGAIN USING THAT
BENCHMARK IN EVERY CITY IS
DIFFERENT, RIGHT.
>> IN TERMS OF WHAT IT LOOKS
LIKE.
>> BUT THAT ONE POINT ONE
NUMBER JUST OVER ONE TRIP PER
VEHICLE PER DAY IS GENERALLY
WHAT WE'RE SHOOTING FOR TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE MAINTAINING
ACCESS.
BUT WE'RE NOT JUST HAVING
VEHICLES AROUND THAT AREN'T
GETTING USED AT DIFFERENT
SPOTS.
SO FROM SORT OF AN OPERATIONAL
AND METRIC STANDPOINT, THAT'S
GENERALLY WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
FOR.
SO AND LOOKING AND JUST
COMPARISON TO SOME OF OUR OTHER
PROGRAMS.
ANN ARBOR HAS ONE OF OUR HIGHER
PROBABLY TOP 20 PERCENT OF OUR
PROGRAMS IN TERMS OF THAT
NUMBER OF TRIPS PER VEHICLE PER
DAY RIGHT NOW I WOULD SUGGEST
IT COULD BE IN ADDITION TO THE
FLEET AND THAT WOULD GAIN OR
GIVE ACCESS TO A GREATER NUMBER
OF FOLKS IN THE CITY THAT ARE
DEMANDING THE SERVICE DOES AND
OBVIOUSLY A LARGER THAN AVERAGE
VARIATION SEASONALLY ESPECIALLY
WITH STUDENTS AND THE SUMMER
AND THEN ALSO THE WINTER
WEATHER.
YEAH, SO I WOULD SAY END
OF SPRING AND END OF SUMMER
EARLY FALL AT TIMES WHEN
STUDENTS ARE IN SESSION ARE
PROBABLY OUR HIGHEST RIDERSHIP
TIMES.
SO IN APRIL MAY AND THEN AUGUST
THROUGH OCTOBER .
THAT BEING SAID, WE DO HAVE
SOME PROGRAMS WHERE WHEN
STUDENTS ARE NOT IN SESSION WE
DON'T REALLY SEE ANY RIDERSHIP
.
THAT'S NOT THE CASE IN ANN
ARBOR.
WE STILL SEE ABOUT THAT ONE
TRIP PER VEHICLE PER DAY EVEN
IN THE SUMMERTIME, EVEN INTO
THE WINTER.
THERE ARE SOME MARKETS WHICH WE
HIBERNATE.
WE SAVE FOR THE WINTER TIME
WHERE WE PULL THE FLEET IN BUT
WE HAVE THE FLEET OUT IN ANN
ARBOR AND FOLKS STILL DO RIDE
THROUGHOUT THE WINTER GENERALLY
LOWER SEASONALLY BUT WE STILL
SEE RIDERSHIP AND THE DEMAND IS
STILL THERE.
SO THERE ARE THOSE SEASONAL
FLUCTUATIONS COMPARED TO ALL
OF OUR PROGRAMS AS A WHOLE AS A
WHOLE.
BUT COMPARED TO OUR OTHER MIXED
CITY AND CAMPUS PROGRAMS WE
ACTUALLY SEE LESS VARIATION
SPECIFICALLY TO THAT PROGRAM
PROFILE IF THAT MAKES SENSE
THAT I LEARNED A LOT
OF INTERESTING STUFF THERE.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FROM WHAT
ELSE RIGHT.
WELL, THANK YOU SO MUCH, JIMMY
AND THANKS FOR THE QUESTIONS.
I THINK WITH THAT I THINK WE'LL
WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
TOPIC.
THANK YOU.
THANKS AGAIN.
>> THANKS AGAIN FOR COMING.
OUR RIGHT.
SO NEXT UP WE HAVE THE
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT TOPIC
OTHER SAFE EARTH WILL GIVE AN
OVERVIEW OF THE CITY'S
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE
AND AND ALSO OF COURSE ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE.
SO HEATHER, I THINK IF YOU NEED
TO SHARE YOUR SCREEN OR
WHATEVER YOU NEED TO DO FOR
THIS RIGHT.
>> I'LL GET MY SCREEN TIME AND
I DON'T KNOW IF JIMMY HAS
ALREADY LEFT BUT I DO WANT TO
LET YOU KNOW THAT I'M NEW AT
THE HOUSING COMMISSION AND HAVE
A LITTLE BIT OF BACKGROUND IN
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING AS
WELL.
SO I'D LOVE TO BE ADDED TO YOUR
LIST OF CONTACTS ALREADY AT THE
HOUSING COMMISSION TO HELP YOU
WORK ON THIS.
SO THIS IS REALLY EXCITING WHAT
YOU'RE WORKING ON.
>> OH, PERFECT.
THANK YOU HEATHER FOR
MENTIONING THAT AND LET'S
DEFINITELY CONNECT AFTERWARDS.
>> OK, GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN EVERYBODY SEE THE SCREEN?
YES.
OK, GREAT.
WELL THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THOSE ARE REALLY TWO TOUGH ACT
TO FOLLOW UP SO THANK YOU FOR
THAT RAYMOND BUT I AM HAPPY TO
BE HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE
TO GIVE A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND ABOUT MYSELF.
MY NAME IS HEATHER CYPRUS.
I AM.
MY BACKGROUND IS IN URBAN
PLANNING AS WELL AS SOCIAL WORK
WHICH IS WHAT LED ME TO THIS
ENGAGEMENT WORK AND I JUST
RECENTLY SHIFTED OVER TO THE
HOUSING COMMISSION WHICH I
MENTIONED.
I'VE BEEN THERE FOR ABOUT A
MONTH SO NOW THE DIRECTOR
OF HOUSING AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT OVER THERE.
BUT WHEN I WAS DOING THIS
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT WORK I
SERVED IN A GROUP CALLED
SYSTEMS PLANNING AND PRIMARILY
DID ENGAGEMENT WORK
ALSO WORKED
ON SOME LONG RANGE PLANNING
INITIATIVES LIKE THE TREE TRAIL
WAS ALSO TASKED WITH THE CENTER
OF THE CITY AS WELL.
SO TO JUMP INTO THE PROJECTS
GOAL IS REALLY TO HELP US AS AN
ORGANIZATION, AS A GOVERNMENTAL
ENTITY AS WELL AS A COMMUNITY
AS A WHOLE LIVE UP TO OUR
DESIRE TO BE EQUITABLE,
INCLUSIVE OF THOSE OF US WHO
ARE IN THE ENGAGEMENT GAME
REALLY FEEL THAT EQUITABLE
ENGAGED ENGAGEMENT IS KEY TO
THIS.
SO WHAT WE SOUGHT TO DO IS TO
WORK WITH PRESIDENTS AND NOT
THE USUAL RESIDENTS THAT COME
TO OUR MEETINGS AND SHARE A
LITTLE BIT MORE INFORMATION ON
THAT A LITTLE BIT LATER.
BUT REALLY HEARING FROM A BROAD
PERSPECTIVE OF RESIDENTS TO
DEVELOP A SHARED UNDERSTANDING
OF WHAT EQUITY MEANS AND WHAT
POLICIES, GUIDELINES AND
PRACTICES WE COULD IMPLEMENT TO
HELP SPEED THE INCLUSIVE CITY
THAT WE WANT TO BE SO WHEN WE
SET OUT TO DO THIS WORK WE
REALIZED THAT STAFF REALLY
NEEDED TO GET GROUNDED FIRST SO
WE NEEDED SOME TIME TO EDUCATE
OURSELVES.
SO PRIOR TO AN EXTERNAL LAUNCH
WE SPENT SOME TIME RESEARCHING
PROMISING PRACTICES FROM OTHER
COMMUNITIES TO LOOKING AT WHAT
OTHER COMMUNITIES WERE DOING
AND THEN LOOKED AT EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
SO WHERE ARE WE AT REALLY?
IN ADDITION TO THAT WE LOOKED
AT WHAT WE ARE ALREADY DOING
WHICH IS INCLUDES THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT TOOLKIT WHICH HAS
BEEN AROUND FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS BUT ISN'T CONSISTENTLY
APPLIED.
SO WE WANTED STAFF TO TAKE A
LOOK AT THAT AND SEE WHAT WAS
WORKING, WHY NOT EVERYBODY WAS
USING IT.
WE ALSO LOOKED AT OUR
DEMOGRAPHIC DATA COLLECTION AND
I'M GOING TO SHOW YOU SOME
STATISTICS ON THAT IN JUST A
MOMENT.
WE STARTED COLLECTING
DEMOGRAPHIC DATA IN TWO
THOUSAND NINETEEN JUST TO GET A
BASELINE OF WHO WAS ENGAGING
WITH US.
SO IT WAS A LITTLE BIT BEFORE
THE PANDEMIC STARTED AND THEN
OF COURSE AFTER THE PANDEMIC.
SO THAT'S A LITTLE BIT SKEWED
BECAUSE MOST OF OUR DATA IS
FROM ONLINE ACTIVITY.
WE ALSO STARTED DOING STAFF
STAFF TRAINING JUST AS THE
SUPPOSED BEGINNING.
SO WE HIRED A GROUP WELL
THERE'S A AGENCY CALLED
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF PUBLIC PARTICIPATION THAT
PROVIDES TRAININGS ON HOW TO DO
GOOD PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
SO WE STARTED STAFF TRAINING ON
THAT.
WE ALSO HAD A YOUTH ENGAGEMENT
EFFORT AND THE CITY HAS DONE
YOUTH ENGAGEMENT EFFORTS
THROUGHOUT THE AGES.
BUT THE MOST RECENT ONE IS
ACTUALLY IN AN APPENDIX YOU'LL
SEE IN THE REPORT AND THIS
INVOLVED ACTUALLY DOING A CLASS
WITH COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL
BROUGHT STUDENTS OVER FROM
COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL AND
TAUGHT BASICALLY HOW TO ENGAGE
WITH THE CITY.
SO HOW DOES THE CITY OPERATE
GIVE THEM A BASELINE ON A
VARIETY OF TOPICS AND THEN JUST
TRY TO INSTILL IN THEM THAT
THEY HAD A RIGHT TO GIVE THEIR
INPUT ON THE PLANS THAT WE'RE
MAKING TODAY WHICH AFFECT THEM
AS ADULTS TOMORROW.
AND THEN WE ALSO TALKED ABOUT
OUR DEVELOPER PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENT WHICH
IS SOMETHING THAT WE DO AS NEW
DEVELOPMENT COMES IN WHICH IS A
LITTLE BIT ABOVE AND BEYOND
WHAT OTHER COMMUNITIES DO.
SO THE DEMOGRAPHIC DATA THAT WE
ARE COLLECTING THIS IS WHAT IT
SHOWS THAT PRIMARILY WHO'S
ENGAGING WITH US.
SO WE HAVE WHAT YOU'LL SEE HERE
THE BLUE YOU'LL SEE OUR SURVEY
RESPONDENTS AND THOSE ARE
PEOPLE THAT ATTENDED OUR EVENTS
EITHER IN PERSON WHEN IT WAS
BEFORE THE PANDEMIC OR ONLINE
OR TOOK SURVEYS FROM US AND IT
WASN'T A REQUIREMENT.
IT WAS COMPLETELY OPTIONAL.
WE CAN'T REALLY FORCE PEOPLE TO
TAKE DEMOGRAPHIC SURVEYS BUT
THOSE WHO CHOSE TO PARTICIPATE
IN MANY PEOPLE DID.
THIS IS WHAT SHOWED IN
COMPARISON TO THE CENSUS DATA
IS THAT WE ARE BASICALLY
GETTING A LOT OF WHITE, WEALTHY
OLDER HOMEOWNERS THAT ARE
COMING TO OUR MEETINGS.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
INTUITIVELY KNEW BUT THIS
REALLY SHOWS US THAT THAT'S
WHAT WAS HAPPENING.
>> SO THUS THE STEERING
COMMITTEE WAS BORN AND WE
DIDN'T WANT TO GET THE USUAL
SUSPECTS WITH US SO WE PUT OUT
A CALL THROUGH SOME OF OUR
STANDARD CHANNELS LIKE SOCIAL
MEDIA, TWITTER NEXT DOOR,
FACEBOOK ALSO DID SOME FLIERS.
WE ARE FINDING MORE AND MORE
THAT FIRES ARE A GOOD WAY TO GO
AND I KNOW IT SEEMS OLD
FASHIONED BUT PHYSICAL FIRES
AROUND TOWN ACTUALLY ATTRACT
PEOPLE THAT WE DON'T NORMALLY
GET BECAUSE IT'LL GET PAST
CERTAIN PEOPLE THAT ARE JUST
PASSING BY.
SO WE PUT FLIERS AROUND TOWN.
WE SENT THEM OUT TO HOUSING
COMMISSION SITES.
WE WENT THROUGH MEALS ON WHEELS
SO PEOPLE WHO WERE RECEIVING
MEALS FROM WHEELS WERE GETTING
FLIERS AND THAT WE DID A
COMMUNITY NEWSLETTER.
WE DID EMAIL DISTRIBUTION LIST
.
WE DID A PRESS RELEASE.
WE ALSO WENT THROUGH OUR
SCHOOLS WHICH IS A REALLY GOOD
OUTLET TO GET THINGS GOING
THROUGH THE THE YOUTH AND THEN
GETTING TO THE PARENT.
AND THEN WE ALSO CREATED A
VIDEO PSA ON PUBLIC TELEVISION
.
SO WITH THAT WE ACTUALLY GOT 80
APPLICANTS WHICH IS MORE THAN
WE THOUGHT WE WOULD AND MORE
THAN WE THOUGHT WE COULD HANDLE
BECAUSE WE REALLY JUST WANTED A
STEERING COMMITTEE.
WE ENDED UP NARROWING IT DOWN
TO THIRTY REPRESENTATIVES WHICH
IS STILL REALLY LARGE FOR A
STEERING COMMITTEE THAT WE JUST
DIDN'T WANT TO NARROW IT ANY
FURTHER.
THERE WERE JUST SO MANY GOOD
APPLICANTS AND AN OBVIOUS
DESIRE FROM THE COMMUNITY TO
PARTICIPATE IN SOMETHING LIKE
THIS.
SO WITH THOSE THIRTY
REPRESENTATIVES THAT WERE
CHOSEN WE MET MONTHLY FOR ONE
AND A HALF YEARS WE WORKED ON
DEFINING EQUITY AND OUR CORE
VALUES AND THEN DEVELOPED
RECOMMENDATIONS I'LL GET TO AT
THE END OF THIS PRESENTATION.
SO THE EQUITY DEFINITION THE
GROUP CAME UP WITH IS THIS THE
FAIR AND JUST PRACTICE IS THAT
ENSURE ALL COMMUNITY MEMBERS
CAN THRIVE EQUITABLE PRACTICES
ACKNOWLEDGE AND ADDRESS
STRUCTURAL INEQUITIES HISTORIC
AND CURRENT THAT ADVANTAGE AND
DISADVANTAGE OTHERS AND THAT'S
OF COURSE DISTINGUISHED FROM
EQUALITY WHICH MEANS TREATING
EVERYONE AS IF THEIR
EXPERIENCES ARE THE SAME.
SO THE THE COMMITTEE STARTED
MEETING AND I HAD INITIALLY PUT
TOGETHER THIS PLAN WHAT WE WERE
GOING TO TALK ABOUT AT EVERY
MEETING AND IT HAD A REALLY
LINEAR PATH AND WHAT I QUICKLY
REALIZED IS WE COULDN'T REALLY
BE ON A LINEAR PATH.
WE REALLY HAD TO HONOR WHERE
PARTICIPANTS WERE COMING FROM
AND THE THINGS THAT WERE
HITTING THEM THE HARDEST.
THE THINGS THEY NEEDED TO TALK
ABOUT EACH MEETING WE ACTUALLY
SPENT A LOT OF TIME AT THE
BEGINNING DOING ICE BREAKER
QUESTIONS AND KIND OF GETTING
TO KNOW YOU TYPE QUESTIONS AS
WELL AS JUST HAVING SOME TIME
TO SHARE WHAT WAS IN OUR MIND
AND IN OUR HEARTS JUST BECAUSE
THERE IS SO MUCH GOING ON IN
THE WORLD RELATED TO EQUITY
THAT WAS HEARTBREAKING AND
PEOPLE JUST NEEDED SPACE TO
PROCESS IT SO THAT WAS THE
BEGINNING OF EVERY MEETING AND
THEN WE JUST TOOK VARIOUS TURNS
ADDRESSING TOPICS THAT THE
GROUP WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
WHICH YOU'LL SEE JUST KIND
OF TOOK US ALL OVER THE PLACE I
HAD ORIGINALLY THOUGHT WE WERE
JUST GOING TO TALK ABOUT
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT ENGAGEMENT
BUT WHAT BECAME APPARENT IS
THAT WE CAN'T JUST TALK ABOUT
ENGAGEMENT.
WE HAVE TO TALK ABOUT THESE
OTHER TOPICS AND DOVE INTO THEM
A LITTLE BIT DEEPER BEFORE WE
CAN TALK ABOUT ENGAGEMENT
RELATED TO ANY OF THIS.
SO ONE OF THE FIRST SESSIONS
THAT WE HAD WAS GOING OVER THE
OPPORTUNITY INDEX AND SO
GILARDI FROM THE COUNTY WALKED
THROUGH THAT WITH US.
IF YOU DON'T KNOW ABOUT THE
OPPORTUNITY INDEX, I DO
ENCOURAGE YOU TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THAT.
IT'S ON THE COUNTY'S WEBSITE
BUT IT'S A MAPPING RESOURCE
THAT SHOWS AREAS THAT HAVE
GREATER OPPORTUNITY THAN OTHERS
.
WE REVIEW THE DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
OF ENGAGEMENT PARTICIPANTS
WHICH WAS THE DATA THAT I JUST
SHOWED YOU AND HAD DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT THAT WHAT THAT MEANT WE
LOOKED AT THE ENGAGEMENT
TOOLKIT THAT THE CITY HAS BEEN
USING AND PICKED THAT APART,
LOOKED AT WHAT WAS WORKING,
WHAT WASN'T WORKING, WHAT CAN
BE IMPROVED.
WE REFLECTED ON ENGAGEMENT
EFFORTS THAT WE WERE IN PROCESS
OF AT THAT TIME WE WERE DOING
THE AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT
FUNDING EFFORT AND SO WE PICKED
THAT APART, LOOKED AT THE GOOD,
THE BAD AND THE UGLY WITH THAT
AND ALSO ANOTHER PROMINENT ONE
WAS THE WATER TREATMENT PLANT
PROJECT.
SO THAT PROJECT WAS LOOKING AT
IMPROVEMENTS TO OUR WATER
TREATMENT PLANT AND SOME OF THE
COMMITTEE MEMBERS GOT REALLY
INVOLVED WITH THAT AND SO WE
TALKED ABOUT THAT.
WE ALSO GOT INTO LAND USE
PLANNING AND SO BRETT LEONARD
WAS A PART OF THIS AND HE WAS
GRACIOUS AND SPENT A LOT
OF TIME TALKING ABOUT LAND USE
PLANNING.
WE LOOKED AT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND TALKED TO THE GROUP ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CITY HIRING
PRACTICES.
THAT WAS A REALLY BIG ONE FOR
THE GROUP WITH THE SENTIMENT
THAT THE CITY STAFF DOESN'T
REFLECT THE CHURN OF THE
COMMUNITY.
WE NOBILITY EFFORTS AND THEN
OF COURSE WE LOOKED AT THE
BUILDING BLOCKS OF MEANINGFUL
ENGAGEMENT.
WE ALSO DID SOME FIELD TRIPS.
THIS IS ONE OF THEM.
THIS IS OUT TO THE WATER
TREATMENT PLANT.
THIS IS A GRAPHIC THAT THE
GROUP CAME UP WITH.
WE DIDN'T END UP PUTTING THIS
IN THE REPORT BUT WE REALLY
KIND OF LIKED IT.
IT'S THIS POOR IDEA THAT WE
NEED WE NEED STRONG FOOTING AND
ENGAGEMENT TO BE ABLE TO
ADDRESS THE TOES HERE WHICH ARE
THESE VARIOUS TOPICS THAT HAVE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT HIRING
PRACTICES, ACCESSIBILITY,
MOBILITY, HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
DECISIONS AND SO ON.
>> SO HOW DOES ENGAGEMENT
INFLUENCE BATTELLE'S?
>> SO THAT REALLY BRINGS ME TO
THE RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH I'M
GOING TO JUST GO OVER WITH AND
YOU HAVE THE REPORT AND I DO
ENCOURAGE YOU TO SPEND TIME
READING THROUGH IT BECAUSE I'M
JUST GOING TO HIT BASICALLY THE
STRATEGIES BUT THERE ARE SOME
ACTION STEPS UNDER THE
STRATEGIES IN THE REPORT SO THE
FIRST RECOMMENDATION IS TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT THE COMMITTEE
IS AH SORRY DEMONSTRATE THAT
THE CITY IS COMMITTED TO
ADVANCING
EQUITY AND THE REASON
BEHIND THIS IS THAT PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN MINORITIES AND
MARGINALIZED WILL NOT ENGAGE
WITH THE CITY IF THE CITY IS
NOT REPRESENTATIVE OR CLEARLY
COMMITTED TO SUPPORTING EQUITY.
SO WITH THAT PEOPLE WANTED TO
SHOW THAT THE CITY POTENTIALLY
HIRES INDIVIDUALS, HIRES
MINORITIES INDIVIDUALS
ESPECIALLY IN HIGHER LEVEL
POSITIONS CREATE MORE
TRANSPARENT AND MEANINGFUL
PATHWAYS FOR PROMOTION
OF MINORITIES, INDIVIDUALS
APPOINT RACIALLY AND ETHNICALLY
MINORITIES CANDIDATES
REPRESENTING IMPACTED COMMUNITY
PERSPECTIVE TO BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS AND THAT CITY
COUNCIL ADOPTS AND ENFORCES
POLICIES THAT ENSURE DECISION
MAKING IS EQUITABLE AND THERE
ARE SOME EXAMPLE POLICY
STATEMENTS IN THE REPORT THERE
AND THEN TO BE AUTHENTIC WHICH
I KNOW SEEMS KIND OF VAGUE BUT
REALLY IT'S THE SENTIMENT ABOUT
BEING SINCERE, NOT DANCING
AROUND A TOPIC BUT COMING TO
THE TABLE AND SAYING WHAT YOU
MEAN AND THEN BUILDING TRUST
AND TRANSPARENCY THROUGH
CONTINUOUS OUTREACH AND
RELATIONSHIP BUILDING.
SO RECOMMENDATION TWO IS
PROVIDE AMPLE BOTH AMPLE AND
TARGETED INVITATIONS TO
ENGAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND
THIS IS BASICALLY BECAUSE
PEOPLE NEED TO BE MADE AWARE
OF OPPORTUNITIES IN ADDITION TO
FEELING WELCOME AND VALUED AT
ENGAGEMENT FENCE.
SO IT'S NOT ENOUGH JUST TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE GETTING THE
WORD OUT ONCE PEOPLE ARE THERE
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY
FEEL THAT THIS IS A MEANINGFUL
OFFERED.
SO UNDER THAT WE HAVE THE
STRATEGIES TRANSLATE AND
TRANSCRIPT WHICH IS ADAPTING A
MESSAGE FROM ONE LANGUAGE TO
ANOTHER WHILE MAINTAINING THAT
ITS INTENT, STYLE AND TONE AND
CONTEXT MEETING NOTICES AND
CONTENT ADDRESSING THE MOST
COMMONLY SPOKEN LANGUAGE IS SET
FIRST.
THE SECOND ONE IS IN ADDITION
TO SOCIAL MEDIA EMAIL USE NON
DIGITAL WAYS OF GETTING THE
WORD OUT SUCH AS FLIER'S WHICH
I MENTIONED EARLIER WORD
OF MOUTH, WORD OF MOUTH IS
REALLY BIG WHEN IT'S REALLY
HELPS WHEN IT'S COMING FROM A
TRUSTED SOURCE DOOR HANGERS AND
OTHER THINGS LIKE THAT
INCLUDING POSTINGS AT COMMUNITY
HUBS SUCH AS COMMUNITY CENTERS,
LIBRARIES AND SCHOOLS GETTING
THE WORD OUT THROUGH PLACES
LIKE RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS,
BARBERSHOPS, BUS STOPS AND
INFORMAL NETWORKS AND AN
ACTIVELY RECRUITING BLACK,
INDIGENOUS AND PEOPLE OF COLOR
TO PARTICIPATE AND ENGAGEMENT
EVENTS.
SO NOT BEING PASSIVE ABOUT IT
BUT REALLY MAKING AN EFFORT AND
THEN CREATING AN ONLINE
ENGAGEMENT THAT IS EASY TO
FIND, EASY TO USE RIGHT NOW
ENGAGEMENT NOTICES ONLINE ARE
JUST KIND OF SCATTERED ALL OVER
THE PLACE.
SO WE REALLY WANT TO BRING
THOSE TO ONE CENTRALIZED
LOCATION ONLINE RECOMMENDATION
THREE IS TO ABOUT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PLANS WITH CARE SO
THE PURPOSE BEHIND THIS IS THAT
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PLANS ARE
THE BLUEPRINT FOR ENSURING
QUALITY EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT
AND UNDER US WE HAVE PROVIDE
THE RESOURCES NECESSARY FOR
STAFF TO CONDUCT MEANINGFUL
ENGAGEMENT.
SO IN THE PAST AND THIS IS NOT
UNIQUE TO ANN ARBOR OR PLANNING
PROJECTS IN GENERAL OFTEN
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT IS SORT
OF AN ADD ON TO IT AND SO WHAT
WE'RE ASKING IS TO REALLY
CENTRALIZE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AND PROVIDE THE RESOURCES
NECESSARY SO THAT MIGHT INVOLVE
PAYING PEOPLE TO PARTICIPATE,
PROVIDING MEALS, THINGS LIKE
THAT AND THEN THE FOURTH
RECOMMENDATION IS TO MAKE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT EVENTS
MORE ACCESSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE
.
AND THE PURPOSE BEHIND THIS IS
THAT ENGAGEMENT EVENTS THAT ARE
NOT EASY TO ACCESS SEEM
UNIMPORTANT OR FEEL HOSTILE
DETER PEOPLE FROM ENGAGING.
SO UNDER THIS WE HAVE OFTEN A
HYBRID MEETING OPTIONS.
WE DID FIND THAT DURING THE
PANDEMIC THAT DID BRING OTHER
PEOPLE OUT IN PART BECAUSE IT
WAS EASIER.
YOU CAN BE IN YOUR PAJAMAS, YOU
CAN HAVE YOUR KIDS RUNNING
AROUND YOU, YOU CAN EAT YOUR
DINNER SO THAT'S HELPFUL.
SO WE DON'T WANT TO GIVE UP OUR
ONLINE OPPORTUNITY BUT WE DO
ALSO WANT TO HAVE IN-PERSON
OPPORTUNITIES.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT DIFFERENT
HYBRID OPTIONS GOING FORWARD,
PROVIDE VARIOUS WAYS FOR PEOPLE
TO PROVIDE THEIR INPUT WAYS
THAT AVOID DOMINANT PEOPLE
NARRATIVES FROM TAKING OVER THE
MEETING.
SO WHAT WE WANT TO AVOID ARE
THOSE OLD FASHIONED TOWN HALL
TYPE MEETINGS WHERE IT'S ONE
PERSON THAT COMES TO THE PODIUM
AT A TIME THAT CAN REALLY SOLVE
A LOT OF PEOPLE OUT.
SO WE LOOK AT DIFFERENT FORMAT.
SOME OF THEM ARE OPEN HOUSES,
THINGS LIKE THAT OR DIFFERENT
WAYS FOR PEOPLE TO PUT INPUT
WHICH CAN BE WRITTEN KIND
OF CATERING SOME MORE
INTROVERTED PEOPLE VERSUS
EXTROVERTED PEOPLE AND ALSO
CHILDREN JUST KIND OF PEOPLE
WHO HAVEN'T TYPICALLY FELT THE
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A VOICE
HOLD MEETINGS AT VARIOUS TIMES
IN THE PAST WE HAVE OFTEN DONE
IT IN THE EVENING GOING WITH
THE IDEA THAT PEOPLE HAVE
TRADITIONAL WORKING SCHEDULES
BUT PEOPLE THEY HAVE ALL SORTS
OF DIFFERENT WORKING SCHEDULES
AND AGAIN DURING THE PANDEMIC
WE FOUND THAT LUNCHTIME
MEETINGS WERE ACTUALLY REALLY
GOOD IF WE WERE DOING THEM
ONLINE THAT PEOPLE COULD JUST
JOIN DOING OUT AND THEN SOME
MORNING MEETINGS TO RECORD
MEETINGS.
PEOPLE REALLY LIKE THE RECORDED
MEETINGS BECAUSE THEY CAN GO
BACK AND SEE WHAT WAS SAID
VERBATIM.
IT HELPS WITH TRANSPARENCY,
HOLD PEOPLE TO THE GOLDEN RULE
STANDARDS.
I MEAN IT SEEMS KIND OF YOU
KNOW, BASIC BUT BUT TO REALLY
JUST HOLD PEOPLE TO TREATING
PEOPLE LIKE THEY WOULD WANT TO
BE TREATED SO WE ARE TRYING TO
USE AN ENFORCED GROUND RULES
THAT SUPPORT HONORING THE
DIGNITY OF PEOPLE UNDERSTAND
THAT THE COMMUNITY'S TIME AND
ENERGY IS IS VALUABLE
ESPECIALLY FOR PEOPLE WITH
LIMITED RESOURCES COMPENSATE
PARTICIPANTS IN SOME WAYS SUCH
AS WITH FOOD OR STIPENDS OR
GIFT CERTIFICATES HOW YOU'RE
TRAINED AND CONTINUE TO TRAIN
MEETING FACILITATORS AND
MODERATORS IN FIELDS SUCH AS
SOCIAL WORK, PSYCHOLOGY,
DIVERSITY, EQUITY, INCLUSION,
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ETC.
CREATE SPACE TO LISTEN TO AND
HEAL OLD WOUNDS USING HIGHLY
TRAINED ENGAGEMENT FACILITATORS
.
SO REALLY JUST LOOKING AT KIND
THE THE HISTORY OF OUR CITY,
THE HISTORY OF MANY CITIES AND
AND THINGS THAT LIKE
SEGREGATION THAT OCCURRED THAT
THE GOVERNMENT WAS INVOLVED IN
AND AND ACKNOWLEDGING THAT NOT
JUST TALKING AROUND IT AND THEN
TAKING TIME TO CELEBRATE AND
EXPERIENCE JOY AS A COMMUNITY.
SO WE DON'T REALLY DO THAT A
WHOLE LOT WHEN WE WHEN WE GET
TO THE END OF THINGS, YOU KNOW,
OFTEN WE JUST HAVE THESE
CONTENTIOUS PUBLIC MEETINGS.
BUT REALLY WE NEED TO ALSO HAVE
TIMES WHERE WE'RE HAVING JOY
TOGETHER AND BONDING IN THAT
WAY.
AND THEN FINALLY WHEN A
DECISION IS MADE CLEARLY
COMMUNICATE THAT THAT IS WHAT
THE DECISION IS, THE DECISION
MAKING PROCESS AND WHO
ULTIMATELY MAKES THE DECISION
AND THE LEVEL OF INFLUENCE THE
COMMUNITY CAN HAVE OVER THE
DECISION.
SO IN THE PAST WE'VE OFTEN JUST
KIND OF FELL OFF WHERE WE A
DECISION WAS MADE AND THEN WE
DON'T REALLY GET BACK TO THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT IT.
SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
DO CIRCLE BACK WITH THE
COMMUNITY AND EXPLAINED EXACTLY
HOW THEIR INPUT INFLUENCED IT
AND AND WHAT DECISION WAS MADE
.
SO GOING BACK TO PROMISING
PRACTICES, AS I NOTED EARLIER
THAT WE AS STAFF HAD LOOKED AT
THESE PROMISING PRACTICES AND I
DID WANT TO JUST HIGHLIGHT A
COUPLE OF THESE WHICH ARE WE'RE
LIKELY TO MOVE FORWARD ON
BECAUSE LOWER HANGING FRUIT ONE
OF THEM IS TO DO COMMUNITY
LIAISON.
SO THIS IS POTENTIALLY AN
EXTENSION OF THE EQUITABLE
ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE AND
MEMBERS THEIR NETWORK.
SO ACTUALLY PAYING PEOPLE TO
PARTICIPATE IN PROJECTS THAT
WE'RE DOING THAT CAN SERVE AS
REPRESENTATIVES MEASURE
PARTICIPANT SATISFACTION.
SO THIS IS EASY TO DO SENDING
OUT SURVEYS AND JUST KIND
OF CHECKING IN AT DIFFERENT
INCREMENTS THROUGHOUT A PROJECT
JUST TO GET THE PULSE OF THE
COMMUNITY AND HOW PEOPLE ARE
FEELING DOING THE MIX
OF MEETING STYLES WHICH I
MENTIONED EARLIER INFORMATION
KIOSKS.
SO PUTTING THOSE AROUND THE
COMMUNITY NOT JUST IN THE
DOWNTOWN BUT REALLY AT THE
EDGES OF THE CITY AND OTHER
PLACES WHERE PEOPLE CAN GO AND
FIND INFORMATION SERVICES GOING
BACK TO SOMETHING THAT WE
LEARNED OVER AND OVER AGAIN IS
THAT WE CAN'T KEEP EXPECTING
PEOPLE TO COME TO US.
WE REALLY NEED TO GET OUT TO
PEOPLE AND INFORMATIONAL KIOSKS
CAN BE HELPFUL WITH THAT
SURVEYS AND POLLING PEOPLE
REALLY TEND TO LIKE OUR SURVEYS
I THINK BECAUSE IT'S EASY
ENOUGH TO DO YOU CAN ACCESS IT
ONLINE ON YOUR PHONE.
I WORRY A LITTLE BIT ABOUT JUST
SENDING OUT TOO MANY SURVEYS
AND WAITING FOR PEOPLE TO GET
RELEASED REALLY SICK OF DOING
THEM AND FOR THAT TO START
SLIDING.
BUT BUT RIGHT NOW PEOPLE ARE
REALLY LIKING DOING ONLINE
SURVEYS AND THEN THE ENGAGEMENT
HUB.
SO DURING THIS PROCESS WE
WORKED WITH A TEAM OF U OF M
STUDENTS TO EXPLORE OUR
ENGAGEMENT ONLINE PRESENCE AND
SO THEY WORKED WITH US
ASSESSING WHERE WE WERE AT.
WE DID PUT TOGETHER JUST KIND
OF A TEMPORARY ENGAGEMENT BUT
WE WANT TO DO SOMETHING BIGGER
AND BETTER THAN THAT.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF WHERE
WE'RE HEADED WITH IT.
THIS IS PITTSBURGH.
WE WANT SOMETHING TO BE REALLY
INTERACTIVE, REALLY VISUAL,
MAKE IT EASIER.
BUT THEY HAVE AND HERE IS
WHAT'S CALLED CARD.
SO IT SHOWS A PICTURE OF THE
PROJECT AND THEN GIVES A
SYNOPSIS OF IT AND THEN YOU CAN
CLICK AT THE BOTTOM, LEARN MORE
AND IT SHOWS DIFFERENT WAYS TO
ENGAGE SO THAT MARS MIGHT NOT
EXACTLY LOOK LIKE US.
BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT THIS IS
BETTER THAN RIGHT NOW.
WE JUST KIND OF HAVE A LISTING
OF PROJECTS SORT OF THAT'S JUST
KIND OF AROUND ON DIFFERENT
SITES ON OUR ON OUR WEB SITE OR
DIFFERENT PAGES ON OUR WEBSITE.
SO WE WOULD LIKE TO DO
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
AND THEN FINALLY GOING BACK TO
THE IDEA OF CELEBRATE
THIS WAS
SORT OF THE CONCLUSION OF OUR
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE
THAT JUST HAPPENED THE OTHER
WEEK.
WE HAD A POTLUCK WHERE WE GOT
TOGETHER AND TALKED ABOUT OUR
JOURNEY AND WHERE THINGS WERE
HEADED.
I WOULD SAY THAT THIS COMMUNITY
IS NOT REALLY OVER.
WE'RE NOT MEETING REGULARLY
ANYMORE.
BUT THERE WAS SOME BONDS THAT
WERE FORMED.
I DO I YOU KNOW, I THINK
FRIENDSHIPS THAT HAVE BEEN
FORMED THAT WILL CARRY ON AND
POTENTIALLY MEMBERS OF THIS
GROUP WILL WILL CONTINUE TO BE
ENGAGED AND THE PROJECTS AND
MANY OF OUR PROJECTS GOING
FORWARD.
SO WITH THAT I'LL KEEP IT SHORT
AND SWEET AND JUST OPEN IT FOR
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THE
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS THE
PEOPLE AT THE MOLLY, THANK YOU
FOR THAT.
>> THAT WAS REALLY GREAT TO TO
SEE HOW ALL THAT PROCESS WORK.
I'M CURIOUS HOW NO SORRY HOW
THIS PROCESS IS SORT
OF FILTERING OUT TO THE
DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS AROUND
THE CITY AND OF COURSE IN
PARTICULAR HOW IT'S BEING
APPLIED IN TRANSPORTATION.
YEAH, THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
SO THIS IS KIND OF OUR INITIAL
ROLL OUT RIGHT NOW WHERE WE'RE
GOING TO THE DIFFERENT BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS TO LET YOU KNOW
WHAT IT WHAT IT WAS AND WHAT
THE RECOMMENDATION ARE.
AND EVENTUALLY THIS WILL GO TO
CITY COUNCIL AND THEN OUR
ULTIMATE GOAL IS TO GET
EVERYTHING INTO THE BUDGET SO
THAT WE'LL HAVE FUNDING BEHIND
THIS AND REALLY MAKE A HUGE
IMPACT AND THEN HAVING MORE
TRAININGS WITH STAFF.
SO I'M AS I MENTIONED, I'M NOW
OVER AT THE HOUSING COMMISSION
SO IT'LL BE MY COLLEAGUE
MICHELLE BENNETT AND WHOEVER'S
HIRED IN MY PLACE WILL BE
TAKING THIS ON.
BUT IN MY CONVERSATIONS WITH
MICHELLE, THE GRAND PLAN IS
JUST TO CONTINUE TO BUILD THE
ENGAGEMENT TEAM SO HIRE MORE
STAFF AND TO CONTINUE TRAINING
STAFF ON THESE RECOMMENDATIONS
.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU
.
COMMENTS.
ANYONE ELSE ELEGANTLY IT'S
REALLY ENCOURAGING TO SEE ALL
THE WORK THAT'S BEEN PUT INTO
THIS AND SEE IT FINALLY
PROLIFERATING THROUGHOUT THE
CITY SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
COMING TO OUR COMMISSION
MEETING AND I GUESS YOU'LL BE
TAKING OTHER BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS, RIGHT?
>> YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
AND THEN ULTIMATELY THE CITY
COUNCIL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
YEAH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR COMING
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO RAYMON, NEXT TOPIC I'M NOT
SEEING JANE ONLINE IS A
INACCURATE.
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S CORRECT.
I KNOW JANE HAD INDICATED SHE
WASN'T FEELING PARTICULARLY
WELL SO I WASN'T SURE SHE WAS
GOING TO BE ABLE TO MAKE IT OR
NOT.
SO WE'LL PROBABLY HAVE TO
POSTPONE THIS ONE TILL NEXT
MONTH.
>> THAT'S FINE.
WE'LL LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING
ABOUT THIS FROM THE UPCOMING
MEETING.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT WAS IN REGARDS TO THE
TWENTY TWENTY THREE RESURFACING
AND RELATED PROJECTS UPDATE BY
THE WAY, SO WE WILL YEAH, WE'LL
WE'LL DELETE THAT TOPIC FOR
FUTURE RIGHT.
SO NEXT UP THEN IS THE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION THE
JENDA FIRST STACK REPORT AND
UPDATES YOU SHOULD HAVE
RECEIVED A STAFF REPORT
PROVIDING PROJECT UPDATES WITH
YOUR AGENDA MATERIALS AND
RAYMOND CAN NOW REVIEW
HIGHLIGHTS OF THIS AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS RAYMOND.
>> ALL RIGHT.
CAN
WE GO?
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, BRETT.
SO AS IS THE USUAL CASE, I'LL
JUST KIND OF GO THROUGH AND
HIGHLIGHT THE CHANGES THAT HAVE
BEEN MADE FROM LAST MONTH TO
THIS MONTH JUST KIND
OF HIGHLIGHTING KIND OF THE
MOVEMENT OF PROJECTS SO
CHURCHING MENTIONED THIS
EARLIER RIGHT BEFORE WE KICKED
OFF THAT CONSTRUCTION IS
CURRENTLY UNDERWAY AND IS
EXPECTED TO BE COMPLETED BY
AUGUST.
THAT'S INSIDE FROM APRIL TO
SEVEN STATE STREET IMPROVEMENTS
FROM WILLIAM HERE ON IS
CURRENTLY UNDERWAY AND IS
EXPECTED TO BE COMPLETE BEFORE
LABOR DAY.
>> FLAT ROAD CONSTRUCTION IS
ALSO UNDERWAY AND IS SCHEDULED
TO BE COMPLETED BY AUGUST.
BROADWAY ANOTHER ONE WHERE
CONSTRUCTION HAS KICKED OFF AND
IS ALSO EXPECTED TO BE
COMPLETED BY AUGUST.
>> THAT'S GATTI'S AVENUE
RESURFACING FROM OBSERVATORY TO
HIGHLAND IS RIGHT AROUND THE
CORNER.
EXPECT THAT PROJECT TO
CONSTRUCTION TO BEGIN THE FIRST
WEEK OF MAY S MAIN STREET WATER
MAIN RESURFACING.
I THINK WE REPORTED LAST MONTH
THAT THIS HAD STARTED AND THAT
THAT WORK IS CURRENTLY EXPECTED
TO GO THROUGH EARLY MAY.
SO HOPEFULLY IN THE NEXT MONTH
OR SO MAINSTREAM WILL BE BACK
ON PARKWAY GLAZIER WAY IS A
CAPITAL MAINTENANCE PROJECT.
CONSTRUCTION IS SCHEDULED TO
START MAY 8TH AND TAKE ABOUT A
MONTH TO COMPLETE.
SO A LOT OF ACTIVITY IN THE
CONSTRUCTION SPACE.
OBVIOUSLY THE CONSTRUCTION
SEASON IS UPON US SO IT'S
ALWAYS KIND OF A FLURRY
OF ACTIVITY TO KIND OF GET
THROUGH THAT THINGS THAT ARE
KIND OF IN THE DESIGN PROCESS
AND PLANNING PHASE IS ABOUT A
PERCENTAGE.
>> YES, I AM SORRY TO INTERRUPT
BUT COULD I MAKE A CORRECTION
ON MAIN STREET YOU SAID THAT
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE DONE BY
MADE THE FIRST THE FIRST PHASE
IS SUPPOSED TO BE DONE BY ME SO
I DIDN'T WANT TO BUILD
EXPECTATIONS OF THE WHOLE
PROJECT WOULD BE DONE BY THANKS
.
>> THANKS FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
RIGHT BECAUSE THEN IT MOVES TO
THE SECTION TO THE NORTH PART
CERTAINLY IS CORRECT.
>> YEAH.
AND RELATED TO THAT I WAS
WONDERING IF YOU COULD UPDATE
US ON HOW THE MAIN STREET
PROJECT IS AFFECTING YOU KNOW
OPENING THE STREETS WAS
THURSDAY IS THURSDAY THROUGH
SUNDAY NIGHTS.
HOW IS THAT GOING TO BE
AFFECTED BY THE MAIN STREET
CONSTRUCTION?
>> WELL, OBVIOUSLY WE WON'T BE
ABLE TO OPEN THE ROAD TO BE ON
STREET DINING DURING THE TIME
THAT IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
SO I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
THE PLAN IS FOR ONCE THE
CURRENT SECTION THAT THEY'RE
WORKING ON IS DONE.
THEY MOVED TO THE NORTH.
I'M NOT SURE IF IT'LL BE OPEN
THE SOUTHERN SECTION AT THAT
POINT WILL BE OPEN FOR
ON-STREET DINING OR NOT.
>> I WOULD HAVE TO CHECK OK,
BUT IT'S NOT IT'S NOT SAFE IT'S
NOT POSSIBLE FOR IT TO BE
AVAILABLE WHILE THE PROJECT'S
GOING ON CERTAINLY AND THAT WE
HAVEN'T HIT THE TIME PERIOD YET
WHERE THE STREETS ARE OPEN YET
RIGHT IS THAT THEY I BELIEVE WE
HAVE THE OK I STARTED AT THE
BEGINNING OF THIS MONTH.
RIGHT OK YEAH I THINK THAT'S
RIGHT.
I WAS ACTUALLY OUT DOWNTOWN ON
SATURDAY NIGHT.
I WAS ACTUALLY AMAZED HOW MANY
PEOPLE WERE GOING UP AND DOWN
MAIN STREET EVEN WITH ALL THE
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY AND
BARRICADES UP IT WAS KIND
OF NICE TO SEE A LOT OF PEOPLE
VISITING THOSE BUSINESSES.
I'M SURE THERE'S PROBABLY SOME
IMPACT BUT THERE WAS STILL A
LOT OF A LOT OF FOLKS AND
OF COURSE WEATHER WAS BEAUTIFUL
THIS WEEKEND TOO.
>> SO THAT PROBABLY HELPED.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
E MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE YOU'VE
HEARD PERIODIC REPORTS ON THIS.
SO YOU KNOW, JUST AS A REMINDER
THERE WAS SOME DIRECTION TO GO
BACK AND BASED ON A RESOLUTION
PASSED BY COUNCIL IN FEBRUARY
TO CONTINUE TO WORK WITH
UNIVERSITY ON BOTH THE BRIDGE
WIDENING PROJECT BUT ALSO
ADDITIONAL BICYCLE PEDESTRIAN
FEATURES SO THAT REDESIGN WORK
IS EXPECTED TO OCCUR THIS YEAR
AND SO CONSTRUCTION THAT IS
TARGETED FOR NEXT YEAR 7TH
STREET AND GREENVIEW AGAIN
BASED ON SOME FEEDBACK FROM
COUNCIL TO GO BACK AND DO SOME
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE
DESIGN AND INCORPORATION OF THE
ALL AGES AND ABILITIES FACILITY
AND PRESENT NEW DESIGNS FOR
FEEDBACK THAT WORK IS UNDERWAY.
THE FIRST PUBLIC MEETING IS
SCHEDULED FOR NEXT WEEK APRIL
TWENTY FIFTH AT SIX PM IT'S THE
BRANCH LIBRARY AND ALL OF THIS
THERE'S THESE DESIGN CONCEPTS
THAT WILL BE KIND OF FORMULATED
IN THE MONTHS AHEAD AND THEN
CONSTRUCTION WOULD BE
ANTICIPATED FOR TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR A COMPANION PROJECT TO THE
ONE JUST MENTIONED IS GREENVIEW
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF SCIENCE
CHURCH THERE WAS AN INITIAL
PUBLIC MEETING HELD ON MARCH
16TH AND INFORMATION FROM THAT
MEETING CAN BE FOUND ON THE
PROJECT WEBSITE.
>> YOU RECEIVED THE UPDATE
TONIGHT FROM JIMMY GILMAN ABOUT
BIKE ROLLOUTS.
I DON'T NEED TO TALK ABOUT THAT
ANYMORE.
PARDON THIS TYPO THIS LITTLE
GRAPH HERE KIND OF CUTE OR THIS
CHART CARRIED FORWARD FROM A
PREVIOUS REPORT STREETLIGHT
IMPLEMENTATION ONE HUNDRED
NINETY NINE FLIGHTS HAVE BEEN
FIXED BY DTT SO FAR THIS YEAR
AND THERE WAS A NEW STREETLIGHT
INSTALLED AT GATTI'S AND
HARVARD TRAFFIC CALMING
PROGRAM.
THERE'S A LOT OF MOVEMENT IN
THAT SPACE.
GRANGER FROM FOREST TO LIBYA
HAD ITS SECOND MEETING LAST
WEEK.
FULLMER FROM MILLER'S BOSS
WILL
HAVE ITS SECOND MEETING THE
FIRST WEEK OF MAY BALDWIN FROM
PACARD TO STADIUM WILL HAVE ITS
FIRST MEETING OR HAD ITS FIRST
MEETING AT THE END OF LAST
MONTH AND THEN MANCHESTER FROM
BUCKINGHAM TO NEEDHAM WILL HAVE
ITS FIRST MEETING NEXT WEEK.
SO A LOT OF THINGS COMING IN
THAT SPACE AND YOU'LL SEE LATER
ON WHEN WE DISCUSS ITEMS FOR
NEXT AGENDA, WE EXPECT THE
FIRST PHASE OF RANGER WHICH IS
BETWEEN STATE AND PACKARD TO
COME TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION NEXT MONTH IF THAT
DOES RECEIVE SUPPORT FROM THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> AND THE OTHER THING TO NOTE
HERE IS THAT THE TRAFFIC
SUBCOMMITTEE HAD ITS LATEST
MEETING ON THE FOURTH OF APRIL
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION.
SO THE NEXT MEETING OF THE
VISION ZERO IMPLEMENTATION
SUBCOMMITTEE WILL BE HELD NEXT
WEEK NEXT MONDAY ON THE SPEED
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
WE'VE TALKED TO YOU A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THAT IN THE PAST WE
ARE WORKING WITH SAM SCHWARTZ
ON A SERIES OF FOCUS GROUPS TO
KIND OF FURTHER REFINE THAT
PROGRAM, MAKE SURE WE'RE
GETTING IT RIGHT AND THEN THE
ANNUAL SNAPSHOT IS SOMETHING WE
HOPE TO BRING BACK TO YOU NEXT
MONTH WHICH IS THIS IDEA
OF KIND OF A PROGRESS REPORT ON
THE EFFORTS THAT ARE UNDERWAY
FOR THE TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND
THE VISION MOVING TOGETHER
TOWARDS VISION AIRPLANE AND
PROGRESS THAT'S BEING SO
THERE'S A KIND OF INTERACTIVE
DASHBOARD TO REPORT REPORTING
MECHANISM THAT'S BEEN DEVELOPED
AND WE'RE PUTTING THE FINISHING
TOUCHES ON THAT WHICH WE HOPE
TO SHOWCASE WITH YOU NEXT MONTH
CARBON REDUCTION PROGRAM GRANTS
I THINK WE PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ON THIS.
SO I THINK THIS ONE BEARS
MENTION THAT WE WERE AWARDED
OVER A MILLION DOLLARS IN
CARBON REDUCTION PROGRAM
FUNDING.
THIS IS PROJECT FUNDING THAT'S
ADMINISTERED BY THE SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN COUNCIL GOVERNMENTS
SOME KOG.
SO WE GOT TWO GRANTS.
THE FIRST WAS FOR A CONVERSION
OF GTE OWNED STREETLIGHTS, 80
PERCENT OF WHICH ARE HIGH
PRESSURE SODIUM OR LOWER
EFFICIENCY LIGHT FIXTURES.
WE ARE LOOKING TO ADVANCE OUR
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS AND
BRING THOSE UP TO LED STANDARDS
SO WE HAVE A MEETING WITH THEM
LATER THIS WEEK TO TALK ABOUT
THAT.
SO THIS WOULD ACHIEVE WHAT TO
BE CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS
IDENTIFIED IN THE EIGHT TO ZERO
PLAN AND THE SECOND IS FOR AN
ALL AGES AND ABILITIES BY
CAWDOR ON WASHINGTON STREET.
THIS HAS BEEN TALKED ABOUT FOR
A WHILE.
SOME OF YOU MAYBE HEARD THE
TERM BICYCLE BOULEVARD AND IT'S
BEEN KIND OF ON THE BOOKS FOR A
WHILE AND NOW WE HAVE SOME
ACTUAL FUNDING TO MOVE IT ALONG
THE JUST SO FOUR TIMELINES THE
LED CONVERSION PROJECT WAS
FUNDED IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR WHICH THAT'S
FEDERAL FISCAL YEAR WHICH I
BELIEVE STARTS IN OCTOBER 1ST
OF THIS YEAR.
SO THAT'S WHEN WE WOULD START
NETWORK AND THEN THE WASHINGTON
BIKE BOULEVARD PROJECT WAS
FUNDED IN FEDERAL FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
SO I KNOW THAT'S A COUPLE YEARS
OUT BUT THAT WOULD GIVE US AN
OPPORTUNITY TO START DESIGN AND
ENGAGEMENT ON THAT AND THEN
ALSO TRY TO COORDINATE THAT
WORK WITH I THINK SOME OTHER
UTILITY RESURFACING WORK THAT'S
PLANNED AND ABOUT THAT SAME
TIME PERIOD QUICK BUILDS.
THERE WAS A QUESTION EARLIER I
BELIEVE FROM MOLLY ABOUT QUICK
BUILDS.
WE ARE WORKING WITH A DESIGN
FIRM HRC ON KIND OF THE NEXT
PHASE OF THAT DESIGN WITH A
FOCUS ON VERTICAL DEVICES TO
EXISTING BUFFORD BAYFRONT AND
THEN UNDER EDUCATION AND
ENCOURAGEMENT SEVERAL THINGS
GOING ON.
MARK YOUR CALENDARS FRIDAY, MAY
19 SO A MONTH FROM NOW IS BIKE
TO WORK DAY SO OUR TEAM IS
WORKING WITH OTHERS ACROSS THE
COMMUNITY ESPECIALLY I GET
DOWNTOWN AND OTHER PARTNERS TO
GET THIS UP AND GOING AND HAVE
COMFORT STATIONS SCATTERED
THROUGHOUT THE CITY FOR THOSE
THAT WANT TO TRY BIKING TO WORK
ON THAT DAY.
SO THERE WILL BE A MAP THAT'S
RELEASED HERE SHORTLY WITH ALL
OF THOSE COMFORT STATIONS AND
THEN THE GET DOWNTOWN IS ALSO
LAUNCHING THEIR COMMUTER
CHALLENGE.
SO THERE'S THE CONQUER THE COLD
THAT HAPPENS IN THE WINTER
JANUARY, FEBRUARY TIME PERIOD.
BUT THEN THE COMMUTER CHALLENGE
OFTEN HAPPENS IN MAY AND AGAIN
IT'S A IT'S A FUN WAY TO KIND
OF SHOW, YOU KNOW, ACTIVE FORMS
OF TRANSPORTATION HOW YOU GET
TO AND FROM AND AROUND THE
CITY.
>> SO LUNCH AND LEARN SERIES WE
REPORTED ON AGAIN THIS IS KIND
OF INTERNAL FACING BUT WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS KIND
OF INSTITUTIONALIZE THE VISION
ZERO PLAN MAKING SURE OTHER
DEPARTMENTS ARE AWARE OF IT.
SO SUZANNE FLOWERS ON OUR TEAM
AND CYNTHIA RENNINGER ARE
HOSTING THOSE MEETINGS AND OUR
NEXT ONE IS NEXT WEEK.
AND THEN THE LAST THING I
WANTED TO MENTION UNDER
EDUCATION ENCOURAGE AND IF
YOU'VE SEEN SOME SOCIAL MEDIA
POSTS ABOUT MY ANN ARBOR
COMMUTE OR MY COMMUTE, WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS BUILD UP
SOME STORYLINES ABOUT HOW
PEOPLE GET AROUND A CITY AND
WHAT THEIR EXPERIENCE IS LIKE
AND SO FEEL FREE TO POST THINGS
TO YOUR SOCIAL MEDIA ACCOUNTS
USING THAT HASHTAG TO COMMUTE
BECAUSE IT'S INFORMATION WE
MIGHT WANT TO DRAW FROM IN THE
FUTURE.
AND SO WHAT WE'RE JUST TRYING
TO BUILD UP TRYING TO USE OTHER
ENGAGEMENT TECHNIQUES SOMEWHERE
ALONG THE LINES OF WHAT YOU
HEARD FROM HEATHER EARLIER ON
THE EDUCATION FRONT WE ARE
HOSTING A SMART CYCLING COURSE
IN MAY THEY'LL BE HOSTED IN TWO
SESSIONS FROM ROUGHLY NOON TO
FIVE ON MAY 9TH AND MAY 16TH.
THIS IS FOR PEOPLE WHO ALREADY
KNOW HOW TO BICYCLE BUT ARE
LOOKING TO BE ABLE TO CYCLE A
LITTLE BIT MORE CONFIDENTLY AND
IT IS FOR ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO
BECOME A LEAGUE OF AMERICAN
BICYCLISTS.
LIGUE CYCLING INSTRUCTOR IS A
PREREQUISITE.
SO IF ANYONE ON THIS COMMISSION
OR IN THE PUBLIC IS INTERESTED
YOU CAN EITHER REACH OUT TO
MYSELF OR SUZANNE FLOWERS.
WE'RE WORKING ON REGISTRATIONS
NOW STRONGEST TOWNE'S I THINK
THIS IS PROMOTED LAST MONTH OUR
TEAM AS WELL AS A GROUP FROM
THE UNIVERSITY BOTH SUBMITTED
APPLICATIONS FOR THE CITY
MANAGER TO CONSIDERED STRONG AS
TOWNS.
WE DID ADVANCE BUT WE PUT UP A
GOOD FIGHT ALL THE SAME.
SO THANKS TO THOSE WHO GOT INTO
THAT STRONGEST COMPETITION AND
VOTED FOR ANN ARBOR AND THEN
THE LAST TWO THINGS TO REPORT
ON THE MICHIGAN ASSOCIATION
OF BICYCLE OR PEDESTRIAN AND
BICYCLE PROFESSIONALS AP BOTH
CYNTHIA AND SUZANNE ARE
AFFILIATED WITH THAT.
THEY'RE CO-CHAIRS FOR THE
MICHIGAN CHAPTER.
THERE WAS A PEER EXCHANGE ON
APRIL 3RD AND IT WAS WENT VERY
WELL AND ALWAYS LOOKING FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO KIND OF SHARE
BEST PRACTICES AND LEARN FROM
OTHERS AS WELL AND I KNOW
THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF INTERESTING KIND OF CAR
CRASH REPORTING AND SO WE'RE
TRYING TO STRIKE THE RIGHT NOTE
ON THIS.
SO IN THE PAST WE'VE KIND
OF SPELLED OUT IN LANGUAGE WHAT
THOSE CRASHES WERE.
BUT NOW WHAT WE'RE FINDING IS
MAYBE IT'S A LITTLE BETTER
PROCESS SINCE THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT IS ALREADY PROVIDING
INFORMATION TO CITY COUNCIL, WE
ARE TAKING THAT INFORMATION AND
RE SHARING IT WITH YOU.
SO INCLUDED IN THE PACKET WERE
THE REPORTS FROM JANUARY AND
FEBRUARY SOME OF THE HIGHER
PROFILE CRASHES WE HAD ALREADY
REPORTED ON TO YOU BUT MAYBE
NOT ALL OF THOSE CRASHES.
SO THOSE REPORTS ARE NOW GOING
TO BE INCLUDED IN YOUR PACKET
ON A REGULAR BASIS.
I WILL APOLOGIZE THAT SOMETIMES
THE TIMING OF WHEN YOUR PACKET
GETS DISTRIBUTED VERSUS WHEN
THE CITY COUNCIL PACKET GETS
DISTRIBUTED THEY DON'T ALWAYS
LINE UP VERY WELL.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, THE MARCH
REPORT JUST BECAME AVAILABLE ON
MONDAY.
BUT SINCE YOUR PACKET WAS
ALREADY POSTED WE DIDN'T
INCLUDE THE MARCH REPORT BUT WE
WILL NEXT MONTH AND THEN MAYBE
IF THE TIMING IS RIGHT WE CAN
INCLUDE BOTH MARCH AND APRIL.
AND SO THAT'S MY UPDATE AND I'M
HAPPY TO ENTERTAIN ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE
QUESTIONS PETER RAYMOND ABOUT
THE CRASH REPORTS.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF OBSERVATIONS
.
THE FIRST ONE IS THAT THE THE
JANUARY REPORT DOESN'T INCLUDE
ANY DETAILS ON A PEDESTRIAN
CRASH ON JACKSON ROAD OR THE
PEDESTRIAN CRASH AT MAIN AND
KINGSLY.
SO THOSE ARE TWO SERIOUS
CRASHES THAT ARE IN JANUARIES
REPORT AND I I MEAN I GUESS I
DON'T KNOW WHY THEY'RE NOT IN
THERE BUT IT LOOKS LIKE EVEN
MONTHS AFTER THEY'VE HAPPENED
THE JANUARY REPORT HASN'T BEEN
UPDATED TO INCLUDE THEM SO I
GUESS I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
THAT MAYBE RATHER THAN HAVING A
MONTHLY REPORT THAT'S A
SNAPSHOT IN TIME THIS DOCUMENT
COULD BE LIKE A RUNNING TALLY
SO THAT WHEN UPDATES ARE
AVAILABLE THEY CAN BE ADDED TO
BUT WE SHOULD WE SHOULD BE
COUNTING THOSE TO A CRASHES AS
HAVING HAPPENED IN JANUARY.
MY OTHER OBSERVATION ABOUT THE
JANUARY REPORT IS THAT THERE IS
A PRETTY SIGNIFICANT IN MY MIND
ERROR.
THERE WAS A CRASH AT STADIUM
AND LIBERTY AND THIS REPORT
SAYS THAT IT DID NOT HAPPEN AT
THE CROSSWALK BUT THE
PEDESTRIAN WAS NOT IN A
CROSSWALK IN THAT CASE WHERE
THAT CRASH WAS A THIRTEEN YEAR
OLD CHILD WHO WAS IN THE
CROSSWALK AND DID ACTIVATE THE
RFP AND DID WAIT FOR ONE LANE
OF TRAFFIC TO COME TO A
COMPLETE STOP SOMEHOW THE
FURTHER
LANE THAT CAR WAS NOT
ABLE TO COME TO A COMPLETE
STOP.
SO TO ME THAT'S A PRETTY A
PRETTY SIGNIFICANT ERROR AND
AGAIN, I DON'T KNOW IF WE
CONTINUE WITH THIS REPORTING
SCHEME.
I DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO GET
CORRECTED.
I GUESS WHAT I WOULD PREFER
INSTEAD RATHER THAN PUTTING
THESE THOSE DETAILS INTO A
SUMMARY REPORT LIKE THIS, I
GUESS I WOULD RATHER THAT THE
CRASH REPORTS THEMSELVES THOSE
WERE RELEASED IN SOME MANNER SO
THAT WE CAN SEE THOSE DETAILS
FOR OURSELVES.
THE OTHER THING I'D LIKE TO
OBSERVE ABOUT THESE AND MAYBE
THIS IS JUST A MINOR IRRITATION
IS THAT INCLUDING A COLUMN ON
HELMET USED TO WATCH AND
CROSSWALK USAGE IS SORT
OF CLOSE TO VICTIM BLAMING AND
I DON'T THINK THAT IT'S IT'S
SOMETHING WE SHOULD BE SPENDING
TIME TABULATING.
I THINK THAT IT WOULD BE
BETTER, LIKE I SAID, TO HAVE
THE CRASH REPORTS RELEASED SO
THAT THE DETAILS OF WHAT
HAPPENED CAN BE SEEN.
VERY LAST THING I WILL ADD IS
THAT WHEN WE TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
THE CRASHES, THE PEDESTRIAN
CRASH AND JACKSON THAT WAS A
LEVEL A CRASH AND THE
PEDESTRIAN CRASH AND KINGSLY
THAT BRINGS THE TOTAL
OF SERIOUS CRASHES AND FATALITY
CRASHES PEDESTRIANS AND OUR FOR
THIS YEAR UP TO SIX COMPARE
THAT TO SEVEN IN ALL OF LAST
YEAR AND IN OUR FIVE YEAR
ROLLING AVERAGES ABOUT SEVEN WE
ARE ALREADY AT SIX.
THANK YOU
ALL.
>> THANK YOU, PETER AND PETE.
THANKS FOR THOSE COMMENTS.
I THINK I'LL HAVE TO WORK WITH
LIEUTENANT SCHERBA ON A LOT
OF THOSE SUGGESTIONS AND WE CAN
FIGURE OUT HOW TO IMPROVE UPON
THIS AGAIN, LIKE I SAID, WE'RE
TRYING TO KIND OF FIGURE OUT
WHAT THE THE BEST AND MOST
PRODUCTIVE WAYS TO SHARE THIS
INFORMATION.
>> SO I TRIED SOMETHING
DIFFERENT AND I GOT A YOU KNOW,
RAYMONDI I APPRECIATE THE
INFORMATION THAT YOU'RE
SHARING.
WHAT WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE WAS
THAT THERE WERE ERRORS IN IT
AND OMISSIONS.
RIGHT.
SO WE NEED TO GET IT RIGHT
OBVIOUSLY.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
DOESN'T MEAN THAT THE PROCESS
DOESN'T HAVE THERE ARE STILL
GOOD PARTS OF THE PROCESS.
LET ME ALSO TAKE THOSE THREE
THINGS THAT I SUGGESTED THOSE
THREE RECOMMENDATIONS AND SEND
THEM TO YOU AND A NOTE JUST SO
THAT WE CAN BE CLEAR ABOUT WHAT
I'M SUGGESTING.
>> RIGHT.
THANKS, DARMA.
SORRY I YELLED AT MY HUSBAND
FOR THAT.
>> I WANT TO CALL HIM AND HE
PUT FLOWERS ON MY DESK SO I
WANTED TO FOLLOW UP ON THE
CRASH REPORTS JUST BECAUSE I
HAD A MEETING WITH LIKE OUR
REGULAR BOARD MEETING WITH THE
POLICE CHIEF AND WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE NEW POLICE
TRANSPARENCY DASHBOARD AND SHE
WAS MENTIONING THAT SHE THINKS
THAT THE CRASH DATA CAN BE
ADDED TO THAT.
SHE THINKS THAT THAT'S A
CAPABILITY THAT JUST ROLLED OUT
SO THEY'RE SOLELY WORKING ON
THAT.
>> SO I DON'T MEAN TO LIKE
TOUCH HER BUT WOULD PROBABLY
HAVE A BETTER IDEA OF THIS AND
I'M NOT MAKING AN ANNOUNCEMENT
.
>> I'M JUST KIND OF SAYING THAT
THERE MIGHT BE CAPACITY TO
SELFS SERVICE ON A DASHBOARD
ACCORDING TO WHAT I TALKED TO
HER ABOUT THE I LIKE COUNCIL
MEMBER ECKMANN SAID THE
DASHBOARD SOCITY ROLL OUT REAL
SOON IF NOT ALREADY IT'S NOT
CRASH.
>> IT'S THERE JUST DOESN'T HAVE
THE CRASH.
>> DON'T DARE I KNOW IT WAS
LIKE PENDING ANY DAY NOW SO
IT'S PROBABLY BEEN ACTIVE FOR A
COUPLE OF DAYS.
YOU'RE RIGHT THAT I BELIEVE THE
DASHBOARD DOES HAVE THAT
CAPABILITY TO ADD AND I THINK
THAT'S A GOOD IDEA AND THAT
POTENTIALLY TO GET THAT
INFORMATION APPEAR MORE TIMELY
AS WELL.
I CAN CHECK WITH THE CHIEF AND
SEE IF THAT CAN BE DONE IF AND
I THINK IT CAN AND HOW WE HOW
GO ABOUT DOING THAT
.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ANYTHING ELSE RAYMOND STUFF
SPORTS RIGHT.
SO ANY COMMISSIONER TO
SPECIFICALLY SERVE AS A LIAISON
TO ANOTHER BODY OR ORGANIZATION
ARE NOW INVITED TO PROVIDE
REPORTS OR UPDATES.
MOLLY JUST A QUICK UPDATE FROM
THE TRAFFIC COME IN COMMITTEE
WE HAD HOPED TO HAVE A
RESOLUTION READY THIS MONTH.
I AM CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC THAT
WE WILL HAVE ONE FOR THE
COMMISSION TO LOOK AT NEXT BUT
IT'S BASICALLY LIKE WE'RE WE'RE
GETTING THERE AND SORT
OF FIGURING OUT THE IT'S BEEN A
LITTLE BIT MORE COMPLICATED
THAN WE ANTICIPATED TO SORT
OF FIGURE OUT WHAT TO RECOMMEND
IN TERMS OF WHAT'S WORKING AND
WHAT'S NOT.
BUT WE ARE STILL WORKING AND
STILL MEETING AND HOPEFULLY
NEXT MONTH WE'LL HAVE SOMETHING
FOR THE COMMISSION.
GOOD TO HEAR.
THANK YOU.
HI.
SO THE RIDE HAS BEEN WORKING
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL MONTHS TO
TO RECEIVE AND GET FUNDING FROM
THE FEDERAL TRANSIT
ADMINISTRATION FOR REPLACEMENT
OF THE YPSILANTI TRANSIT
CENTER.
WE DID GET AN EARMARK FOR THAT
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO AND SO
NOW WE'RE PUTTING OUT A DESIGN
OR A CONTRACT FOR PLANNING
DESIGN, ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY,
ALL THAT GOOD STUFF TO GET THE
PROJECT MOVING FORWARD ON THE
RFP IS GOING OUT NOW WE'RE
EXPECTING TO GET PROPOSALS BACK
IN MAY AND THEN HOPEFULLY A
COUPLE OF MONTHS AFTER THAT
WE'LL BE ABLE TO AWARD THE
CONTRACT AND THEN START MOVING
THE PLANNING FOR THE PROJECT
FORMALLY FORWARD.
AND THEN THE OTHER THING, THE
MILEAGE THAT WE PASSED BACK IN
2020 TO THE SERVICES THAT WE
PROMISED AS PART OF THAT IT'S
ALL GETTING REAL EVERYTHING
THAT WAS FOR ALL THE SERVICES
THAT WERE PROPOSED IN THAT
MILEAGE ARE GOING TO GO INTO
EFFECT IN FALL TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR.
SO WE'RE JUST ABOUT WRAPPED UP
WITH THE PLANNING EFFORTS FOR
THAT AND PROBABLY WITHIN A
MONTH OR TWO WE'LL FINISH THAT
UP AND THEN WE WILL MAKE ALL
THE INFORMATION AVAILABLE FOR
PUBLIC REVIEW THIS FALL SO
THERE'LL BE A SHORT PUBLIC
INPUT PERIOD FOR PEOPLE TO LET
US TELL US WHAT THEY THINK
OF IT AND AND MOST OF THE
SERVICES WILL BE IMPLEMENTED IN
AUGUST TWENTY TWENTY FOUR BUT
WITH A LITTLE LUCK AND YOU KNOW
IF THE STARS ALIGN AND ALL THAT
OTHER GOOD STUFF WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO MOVE THE EXPRESS BUS
IMPLEMENTATION UP AS EARLY AS
AUGUST OR EXCUSE ME AS EARLY AS
APRIL OF THAT YEAR.
THAT'S GREAT.
THAT'S GOOD.
SOUNDS LIKE IT COULD BE AN
AGENDA TOPIC FOR FUTURE MEETING
TO DEFINITELY ANYONE ELSE
PLEASE ON REPORTS.
I'M SORRY I JUST FORGOT ONE
THING MY MONTHLY UPDATE SO AND
THAT WAS NO TURN TO READ SIGNS
ARE GOING UP THE DOWNTOWN.
I'M SO SORRY I MISSED THERE WAS
A PAGE THAT I DIDN'T GET TO
WHICH INCLUDED THE RIGHT UPDATE
SO KENTFIELD NOT BLANK THANK
YOU KEN BUT THE ONE THAT I
DIDN'T COVER WAS NO TURN ON RED
IS GOING UP AND HOPEFULLY IT
WILL BE DONE EITHER LATER THIS
MONTH OR EARLY NEXT MONTH.
THANK YOU.
GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
OK COMMISSION MEMBER
COMMUNICATIONS ALL
COMMISSIONERS ARE INVITED TO
PROVIDE REPORTS AND UPDATES AND
THE COMMISSIONERS WANT TO MAKE
ANY COMMENTS ON ANYTHING.
NOW'S THE TIME.
ALL RIGHT.
SING CALL FOR AGENDA ITEMS.
OH, SORRY.
NO SORRY.
I JUST REMEMBER THAT I HAVE
SOMETHING SO I.
>> I WENT TO AN INTERESTING
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WHAT FAVORITES?
A SCHOOL MEETING THIS WEEK IN
THAT MEETING ALSO LEARNED THAT
THE SCHOOL CITY TRENDS
PROTECTION COMMITTEE I'M
PROBABLY GETTING THE NAME WRONG
HAS BEEN ON A LONG HIATUS BUT
THEY'RE MEETING AGAIN.
I THINK THEY JUST HAD THEIR
FIRST MEETING YESTERDAY AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON THE COUNCIL
PERSON ON THAT.
SO JUST LOOKING FORWARD TO WHAT
THEY WORK ON.
IT'S LIKE YEAH, I'D LOVE TO GET
HAVE MAYBE THEY HAVE THAT
INCLUDED RAPPAPORT'S GOING
FORWARD ONCE ONCE THEY'VE BEEN
A COUPLE OF MEETINGS WE CAN
HEAR ABOUT IT SINCE WE DON'T
HAVE A REPRESENTATION ON THE
COMMISSION ANYMORE.
YES I WAS ABLE TO MAKE IT FOR
THE LAST FORTY FIVE MINUTES OR
SO I RAN UP TO DALLAS AFTER I
DID SOME WORK YESTERDAY AND SAW
RAYMOND UP THERE AS WELL AND IT
WAS GREAT TO SEE EVERYONE THAT
WAS THERE AROUND THE TABLE.
A LOT OF VOICES I HADN'T SEEN
OR HEARD OF BEFORE AND SO I
THINK THAT IS A VALUABLE
MEETING AND SO YEAH I
DEFINITELY AGREE WITH MOLLY
THAT BE NICE TO GET A GOOD
SUMMARY WHENEVER THAT DOES
OCCUR.
DO YOU HAVE AN IDEA IS THAT
LIKE A MONTHLY MEETING
I SEEM
TO RECALL THAT THEY DO GO ON
SUMMER BREAK AND THEY DON'T
MEET DURING THE SUMMER AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THEY'LL CONTINUE
TO MEET MONTHLY WHEN SCHOOL IS
IN SESSION OR NOT.
BUT YEAH, I'M I'M HAPPY TO SEE
IF WE CAN TAKE INFORMATION FROM
THAT AND UPLOAD IT TO THESE
MONTHLY STAFF REPORTS AND MAYBE
PREVIEW THE NEXT MEETING SO
THAT PEOPLE BECAUSE IT IS OPEN
TO THE PUBLIC
SO IF OTHERS
WOULD LIKE TO ATTEND GOING TO
BE GOOD TO ADVERTISE THAT A
LITTLE BIT.
OK.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S SEE.
CALL FOR AGENDA ITEMS SAYS
ALL RIGHT.
RAYMOND.
CALL FOR AGENDA ITEMS SAYS
DO YOU TYPICALLY GO THROUGH
RAYMOND.
FUTURE AGENDA TOPICS?
DO YOU TYPICALLY GO THROUGH
YEAH, I CAN TRACK SOME THINGS
FUTURE AGENDA TOPICS?
THAT WE'VE GOTTEN REQUESTS ON
YEAH, I CAN TRACK SOME THINGS
IN THE PAST.
THAT WE'VE GOTTEN REQUESTS ON
SO THERE'S BEEN A REQUEST FOR
IN THE PAST.
KIND OF REALLY AN EXPLANATION
SO THERE'S BEEN A REQUEST FOR
ABOUT WHAT THE ALL AGES AND
KIND OF REALLY AN EXPLANATION
ABILITIES BY NETWORK MEANS
ABOUT WHAT THE ALL AGES AND
LOOKS LIKE FROM OUR PLAN AND
ABILITIES BY NETWORK MEANS
WHAT THAT MIGHT MEAN IN
LOOKS LIKE FROM OUR PLAN AND
IMPLEMENTATION.
WHAT THAT MIGHT MEAN IN
SO WE ARE HOPING TO MAYBE BRING
IMPLEMENTATION.
THAT TO YOU NEXT MONTH.
SO WE ARE HOPING TO MAYBE BRING
WE TENTATIVELY HAVE UNIVERSITY
THAT TO YOU NEXT MONTH.
OF MICHIGAN TRANSPORTATION
WE TENTATIVELY HAVE UNIVERSITY
RESEARCH INSTITUTE SCHEDULED
OF MICHIGAN TRANSPORTATION
FOR AN UPDATE.
RESEARCH INSTITUTE SCHEDULED
WE'LL HAVE THE ROAD RESURFACING
FOR AN UPDATE.
PROJECT COMING BACK.
WE'LL HAVE THE ROAD RESURFACING
THERE'S ALSO BEEN SOME
PROJECT COMING BACK.
DISCUSSION ABOUT LIKE ROAD
THERE'S ALSO BEEN SOME
RECONFIGURATIONS OR WHAT SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT LIKE ROAD
CALLED ROAD DIETS.
RECONFIGURATIONS OR WHAT SOME
WHAT DOES THAT LOOK LIKE AND
CALLED ROAD DIETS.
WHAT ROADS ARE UP FOR
WHAT DOES THAT LOOK LIKE AND
CONSIDERATION FOR THAT I HINTED
WHAT ROADS ARE UP FOR
AT IT EARLIER BUT GRANGER
CONSIDERATION FOR THAT I HINTED
STATES HACKET EFFECT IT'S
AT IT EARLIER BUT GRANGER
APPROVED BY THE NEIGHBORHOOD
STATES HACKET EFFECT IT'S
THAT THAT WILL COME TO YOU.
APPROVED BY THE NEIGHBORHOOD
THE DRAFT RESOLUTION.
THAT THAT WILL COME TO YOU.
AND THEN I ALSO JUST ADDED WHAT
THE DRAFT RESOLUTION.
MOLLY JUST MENTIONED WHICH IS
AND THEN I ALSO JUST ADDED WHAT
THE TRAFFIC CONTROL
MOLLY JUST MENTIONED WHICH IS
SUBCOMMITTEE STAFF CONTINUE TO
THE TRAFFIC CONTROL
WORK WITH THEM AND HOPEFULLY
SUBCOMMITTEE STAFF CONTINUE TO
GET A RESOLUTION TO YOU BY NEXT
WORK WITH THEM AND HOPEFULLY
MONTH AS WELL.
GET A RESOLUTION TO YOU BY NEXT
OTHER TOPICS JULIE?
MONTH AS WELL.
YEAH, I WONDER IF WE COULD GET
OTHER TOPICS JULIE?
A STAFF REPORT ABOUT THE
YEAH, I WONDER IF WE COULD GET
VARIOUS OPTIONS FOR TRACKING
A STAFF REPORT ABOUT THE
SPEED IN THE CITY MORE
VARIOUS OPTIONS FOR TRACKING
CONSISTENTLY AND I THOUGHT THAT
SPEED IN THE CITY MORE
WAS PUT ON THE YOU FUTURE
CONSISTENTLY AND I THOUGHT THAT
AGENDA ITEMS A FEW MONTHS AGO.
WAS PUT ON THE YOU FUTURE
DID IT FALL OFF FOR A REASON OR
AGENDA ITEMS A FEW MONTHS AGO.
JUST OVERSIGHT?
DID IT FALL OFF FOR A REASON OR
UM, I DON'T KNOW.
JUST OVERSIGHT?
>> I'LL HAVE TO GET BACK TO YOU
UM, I DON'T KNOW.
ON THAT.
>> I'LL HAVE TO GET BACK TO YOU
I I PUT MAYBE OUR ABILITY TO DO
ON THAT.
THAT ON A CITY WIDE BASIS
I I PUT MAYBE OUR ABILITY TO DO
SOMEWHAT DIFFICULT BECAUSE WE
THAT ON A CITY WIDE BASIS
KIND OF DO IT THE OLD FASHIONED
SOMEWHAT DIFFICULT BECAUSE WE
WAY WHERE WE PUT OUT COUNTERS.
KIND OF DO IT THE OLD FASHIONED
SO I KNOW WE'RE TRYING TO RAMP
WAY WHERE WE PUT OUT COUNTERS.
UP OUR TRAFFIC COUNTING PROGRAM
SO I KNOW WE'RE TRYING TO RAMP
SO THAT IT INCLUDES NOT DRIVERS
UP OUR TRAFFIC COUNTING PROGRAM
AND SPEED DATA.
SO THAT IT INCLUDES NOT DRIVERS
ACTUALLY I JUST TALKED TO ONE
AND SPEED DATA.
OF MY STAFF MEMBERS TODAY ABOUT
ACTUALLY I JUST TALKED TO ONE
THE WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE.
OF MY STAFF MEMBERS TODAY ABOUT
SO YEAH, I THINK IT'S
THE WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE.
DEFINITELY SOMETHING WE WANT TO
SO YEAH, I THINK IT'S
TRY TO GET A HANDLE ON BUT WE
DEFINITELY SOMETHING WE WANT TO
HAVEN'T REALLY CRACKED THAT YET
TRY TO GET A HANDLE ON BUT WE
.
HAVEN'T REALLY CRACKED THAT YET
>> HEY, THANKS.
.
KEEP WORKING ON YEAH.
>> HEY, THANKS.
>> MORE DATA IS ALWAYS BETTER
KEEP WORKING ON YEAH.
DERMO A COUPLE ITEMS ONE THAT I
>> MORE DATA IS ALWAYS BETTER
THINK WE TALKED ABOUT IN THE
DERMO A COUPLE ITEMS ONE THAT I
LAST MEETING AS BEING A
THINK WE TALKED ABOUT IN THE
POTENTIAL FUTURE ITEM WAS LIKE
LAST MEETING AS BEING A
REVISITING OUR CROSSING LINES.
POTENTIAL FUTURE ITEM WAS LIKE
I MEAN THAT'S WHAT IT WAS
REVISITING OUR CROSSING LINES.
CALLED FOR LACK OF A BETTER
I MEAN THAT'S WHAT IT WAS
TERM WE KIND OF WENT THROUGH
CALLED FOR LACK OF A BETTER
WHAT'S SORT OF BEING APPLIED
TERM WE KIND OF WENT THROUGH
BUT I THINK WE TALKED ABOUT
WHAT'S SORT OF BEING APPLIED
THERE BEING SOME VALUE IN
BUT I THINK WE TALKED ABOUT
TALKING ABOUT WHAT IT MEANS IN
THERE BEING SOME VALUE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THEN
TALKING ABOUT WHAT IT MEANS IN
THE PILOT SPEED MANAGEMENT
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THEN
PROGRAM.
THE PILOT SPEED MANAGEMENT
MAYBE THAT'S NOT READY YET TO
PROGRAM.
PRESENT BUT IT'S REALLY CALLED
MAYBE THAT'S NOT READY YET TO
OUT IN THE BUDGET YOU MENTIONED
PRESENT BUT IT'S REALLY CALLED
IN YOUR REPORT, RAYMOND, FOR
OUT IN THE BUDGET YOU MENTIONED
THE YEAR AND JUST COULD HEAR
IN YOUR REPORT, RAYMOND, FOR
MORE ABOUT WHAT THE PLAN IS
.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, THAT'S ALL THEN I GUESS
WE'LL CLOSE THE NEXT MEETING IS
GOING TO BE HELD ON WEDNESDAY,
MAY 17TH AT 7:00 P.M. AGAIN,
THIS WILL BE A VIRTUAL MEETING
.
>> SO IF THERE ARE NO
OBJECTIONS WE WILL ADJOURN OUR
APRIL 19TH TWENTY TWENTY THREE
MEETING ANY OBJECTIONS SEEING
NONE.
THIS MEETING IS ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU.
THANKS EVERYBODY.
I'M GOING TO THANK